RM0456 Rev 6

RM0456

Hexadeca-SPI interface (HSPI)
It is not recommended to program the flash memory using the memory-mapped writes:
the indirect-write mode fulfills this operation.
The memory-mapped mode is entered by setting FMODE[1:0] = 11. The programmed
instruction and frame is sent when an AHB master is accessing the memory mapped space.
The FIFO is used as a prefetch buffer to anticipate any linear reads. Any access to
HSPI_DR in this mode returns zero.
The data length register (HSPI_DLR) has no meaning in memory-mapped mode.
All the configuration operation must be completed before the first access to the memory
area. On the first access, the HSPI becomes busy, and no configuration is allowed.
Then, the only way to get BUSY low is to clear the ENABLE bit or to abort by setting
the ABORT bit.

30.4.17

HSPI error management
The following errors set the TEF flag in HSPI_SR and generates an interrupt if enabled
(TEIE = 1 in HSPI_CR):
•

in indirect or automatic status-polling mode, when a wrong address has been
programmed in HSPI_AR (according to the device size defined by DEVSIZE[4:0]).

•

in indirect mode, if the address plus the data length exceed the device size. TEF is set
as soon as the access is triggered.

In memory-mapped mode, the HSPI generates an AHB slave error in the following
situations:

30.4.18

•

The memory-mapped mode is disabled and an AHB read or write request occurs.

•

Read or write address exceeds the size of the external memory.

•

Abort is received while a read or write burst is ongoing when the abort condition is
present at the moment of transfer phases preceding the data phase (In incremental or
wrap burst type modes). To avoid the error, refer to Section 30.4.19: HSPI BUSY and
ABORT.

•

The HSPI is disabled while a read or write burst is requested.

•

A write wrap burst is received.

•

A write request is received while DQSE = 0 in HSPI_WCCR in octal DTR mode, in
dual-memory configuration, in hyperbus mode or 16-bit mode.

•

A read or write request is received while DMODE[2:0] = 000 (no data phase), except
when MTYP[2:0] is HyperBus.

•

Illegal access size when wrap read burst. This means AHB Bus transfer size (HSIZE) is
different from 4 bytes (only for memory-mapped mode).

•

Bit DMM is set in HSPI_CR (dual-memory configuration) and 16-bit mode is set.

HSPI high-speed interface and calibration
To reach higher frequencies, a dedicated high-speed interface is inserted between the HSPI
(or the I/O manager in case the product embeds one), and the I/O pads.
The following is valid for all data bus sizes 1, 2, 4, 8 or 16 bits.
The high-speed interface block embeds resynchronization registers that are clocked by a
delayed clock created from a DLL (delay locked loop) also located in the high-speed
interface. The high-speed interface features are controlled by registers located in the HSPI.

RM0456 Rev 6