•

Once a simultaneous injected sequence of conversions has ended, a new injected
trigger event is accepted only if both JEOS bits of the master and the slave ADC have
been cleared (delay phase). Any new injected trigger events occurring during the
ongoing injected sequence and the associated delay phase are ignored.

•

Once a regular sequence of conversions of the master ADC has ended, a new regular
trigger event of the master ADC is accepted only if the master data register (ADC_DR)
has been read. Any new regular trigger events occurring for the master ADC during the
ongoing regular sequence and the associated delay phases are ignored.
There is the same behavior for regular sequences occurring on the slave ADC.

RM0456 Rev 6

RM0456

Analog-to-digital converter (ADC12)

Regular simultaneous mode with independent injected
This mode is selected by programming bits DUAL[4:0] = 00110.
This mode is performed on a regular group of channels. The external trigger source comes
from the regular group multiplexer of the master ADC (selected by the EXTSEL[4:0] bits in
the ADC_CFGR register). A simultaneous trigger is provided to the slave ADC.
In this mode, independent injected conversions are supported. An injection request (either
on master or on the slave) aborts the current simultaneous conversions, which are restarted
once the injected conversion is completed.
Note:

Do not convert the same channel on the two ADCs (no overlapping sampling times for the
two ADCs when converting the same channel).
In regular simultaneous mode, one must convert sequences with the same length and
inside a sequence, the N-th conversion in master and slave must be configured with the
same sampling time.
Software is notified by interrupts when it can read the data:
•

At the end of each conversion event (EOC) on the master ADC, a master EOC interrupt
is generated (if EOCIE is enabled) and software can read the ADC_DR of the master
ADC.

•

At the end of each conversion event (EOC) on the slave ADC, a slave EOC interrupt is
generated (if EOCIE is enabled) and software can read the ADC_DR of the slave ADC.

•

As the duration of the master regular sequence is equal to the duration of the slave one
(like in Figure 261), it is possible for the software to enable only one of the two EOC
interrupt (ex: master EOC) and read both converted data from the Common Data
register (ADC12_CDR).

It is also possible to read the regular data using the DMA. Two methods are possible:
•

•

Note:

Using two DMA channels (one for the master and one for the slave). In this case bits
DAMDF[1:0] must be kept cleared.
–

Configure the DMA master ADC channel to read ADC_DR from the master. DMA
requests are generated at each EOC event of the master ADC.

–

Configure the DMA slave ADC channel to read ADC_DR from the slave. DMA
requests are generated at each EOC event of the slave ADC.

Configuring dual ADC mode data format DAMDF[1:0] bits, which leaves one DMA
channel free for other uses:
–

Configure DAMDF[1:0] = 10 or 11 (depending on resolution).

–

A single DMA channel is used (the one of the master). Configure the DMA master
ADC channel to read the common ADC register (ADC12_CDR)

–

A single DMA request is generated each time both master and slave EOC events
have occurred. At that time, the slave ADC converted data is available in the
upper half-word of the ADC12_CDR 32-bit register and the master ADC converted
data is available in the lower half-word of the ADC12_CDR register.

–

both EOC flags are cleared when the DMA reads the ADC12_CDR register.

When DAMDF[1:0] = 10 or 11, the user must program the same number of conversions in
the master’s sequence as in the slave’s sequence. Otherwise, the remaining conversions do
not generate a DMA request.

RM0456 Rev 6