RM0456 Rev 6

RM0456

Advanced-control timers (TIM1/TIM8)
This feature can be used for monitoring the counting direction (or rotation direction) in
encoder mode, or to have a signal indicating the up/down phases in center-aligned PWM
mode.

54.3.27

UIF bit remapping
The IUFREMAP bit in the TIMx_CR1 register forces a continuous copy of the update
interrupt flag UIF into the timer counter register’s bit 31 (TIMxCNT[31]). This allows both the
counter value and a potential roll-over condition signaled by the UIFCPY flag to be read in
an atomic way. In particular cases, it can ease the calculations by avoiding race conditions,
caused for instance by a processing shared between a background task (counter reading)
and an interrupt (update interrupt).
There is no latency between the UIF and UIFCPY flags assertion.

54.3.28

Timer input XOR function
The TI1S bit in the TIMx_CR2 register, allows the input filter of channel 1 to be connected to
the output of an XOR gate, combining the three input pins tim_ti1, tim_ti2 and tim_ti3.
The XOR output can be used with all the timer input functions such as trigger or input
capture. It is convenient to measure the interval between edges on two input signals, as per
Figure 593.
Figure 593. Measuring time interval between edges on three signals

tim_ti1
tim_ti2
tim_ti3

XOR

TIMx
Counter
MSv75854V1

54.3.29

Interfacing with Hall sensors
This is done using the advanced-control timers to generate PWM signals to drive the motor
and another timer TIMx referred to as “interfacing timer” in Figure 594. The “interfacing
timer” captures the three timer input pins (tim_ti1, tim_ti2 and tim_ti3) connected through a
XOR to the tim_ti1 input channel (selected by setting the TI1S bit in the TIMx_CR2 register).
The slave mode controller is configured in reset mode; the slave input is tim_ti1f_ed. Thus,
each time one of the three inputs toggles, the counter restarts counting from 0. This creates
a time base triggered by any change on the Hall inputs.
On the “interfacing timer”, capture/compare channel 1 is configured in capture mode,
capture signal is tim_trc (See Figure 536). The captured value, which corresponds to the
time elapsed between two changes on the inputs, gives information about motor speed.

RM0456 Rev 6