609

Reset and clock control (RCC)

RM0456

The other clock sources are asynchronous to TIMx timers therefore an uncertainty of
the trigger instant is added by the resynchronization between the two clock domains.
LPTIMx timers are also asynchronous.
The DAC requires an additional low-power clock (LSI or LSE) to operate in sample and hold
mode, available in Stop mode. This clock is selected with DAC1SEL in the RCC_CCIPR3.

11.4.14

RTC and TAMP clock
The RTCCLK clock source is used by RTC and TAMP, and can be either the HSE / 32, LSE,
or LSI clock. It is selected by programming RTCSEL[1:0] in RCC_BDCR. This selection
cannot be modified without resetting the backup domain. The system must always be
configured so as to get a PCLK frequency greater than or equal to the RTCCLK frequency
for a proper operation of the RTC. The TAMP does not require any kernel clock if only
backup registers are used, with tampers in edge detection mode. All other tamper detection
modes require a kernel clock (refer to Section 64: Tamper and backup registers (TAMP) for
more details).
LSE and LSI clocks are in the backup domain, whereas the HSE clock is not. Consequently:
•

If LSE or LSI is selected as RTC and TAMP clock, these peripherals continue to work
even if the VDD supply is switched off, provided the VBAT supply is maintained.

•

If the HSE clock divided by a prescaler is used as the RTC or TAMP clock, the RTC
state is not guaranteed if the VDD supply is powered off, or if the internal voltage
regulator is powered off (removing power from the core domain). Depending on the
TAMP configuration, this one can remain functional if used in a mode that does not
need any kernel clock.

When the RTC and TAMP clock is LSE or LSI, the RTC remains clocked and functional
under system reset.
If the LSE is needed only for the RTC or TAMP, LSESYSEN must be kept at reset value to
get the lowest consumption.

11.4.15

Timer clock
The timer clock frequencies are automatically defined by hardware.
There are two cases:

11.4.16

•

If the APB prescaler equals 1, the timer clock frequencies are set to the APB domain
frequency.

•

Otherwise, they are set to twice (×2) the APB domain frequency.

Watchdog clock
If the independent watchdog (IWDG) is started by either hardware option or software
access, the LSI oscillator is forced on and cannot be disabled. After the LSI oscillator
temporization, the LSI 32 kHz clock is provided to the IWDG.

11.4.17

OCTOSPI clock
The OCTOSPIx kernel clock, selected by OCTOSPIxSEL[1:0], can be up to 200 MHz when
pll1_q_ck or pll2_q_ck are used.