3460

USB on-the-go high-speed (OTG_HS)

RM0456

Bits 6:4 TCTL[2:0]: Test control
000: Test mode disabled
001: Test_J mode
010: Test_K mode
011: Test_SE0_NAK mode
100: Test_Packet mode
101: Test_Force_Enable
Others: Reserved
Bit 3 GONSTS: Global OUT NAK status
0: A handshake is sent based on the FIFO status and the NAK and STALL bit settings.
1: No data is written to the Rx FIFO, irrespective of space availability. Sends a NAK
handshake on all packets, except on SETUP transactions. All isochronous OUT packets
are dropped.
Bit 2 GINSTS: Global IN NAK status
0: A handshake is sent out based on the data availability in the transmit FIFO.
1: A NAK handshake is sent out on all non-periodic IN endpoints, irrespective of the data
availability in the transmit FIFO.
Bit 1 SDIS: Soft disconnect
The application uses this bit to signal the USB OTG core to perform a soft disconnect. As
long as this bit is set, the host does not see that the device is connected, and the device does
not receive signals on the USB. The core stays in the disconnected state until the application
clears this bit.
0: Normal operation. When this bit is cleared after a soft disconnect, the core generates a
device connect event to the USB host. When the device is reconnected, the USB host
restarts device enumeration.
1: The core generates a device disconnect event to the USB host.
Bit 0 RWUSIG: Remote wake-up signaling
When the application sets this bit, the core initiates remote signaling to wake up the USB
host. The application must set this bit to instruct the core to exit the suspend state. As
specified in the USB 2.0 specification, the application must clear this bit 1 ms to 15 ms after
setting it.
If LPM is enabled and the core is in the L1 (sleep) state, when the application sets this bit, the
core initiates L1 remote signaling to wake up the USB host. The application must set this bit
to instruct the core to exit the sleep state. As specified in the LPM specification, the hardware
automatically clears this bit 50 µs (TL1DevDrvResume) after being set by the application. The
application must not set this bit when bRemoteWake from the previous LPM transaction is
zero (refer to REMWAKE bit in GLPMCFG register).

Table 772 contains the minimum duration (according to device state) for which the Soft
disconnect (SDIS) bit must be set for the USB host to detect a device disconnect. To
accommodate clock jitter, it is recommended that the application add some extra delay to
the specified minimum duration.
Table 772. Minimum duration for soft disconnect
Operating speed