1921

True random number generator (RNG)

RM0456

Software post-processing
No specific software post-processing/conditioning is expected to meet the AIS-31 or NIST
SP800-90B approvals.
Built-in health check functions are described in Section 48.3.3: Random number generation.

48.3.6

RNG clocking
The RNG runs on two different clocks: the AHB bus clock and a dedicated RNG clock.
The AHB clock is used to clock the AHB banked registers and conditioning component. The
RNG clock, coupled with a programmable divider (see CLKDIV bitfield in the RNG_CR
register) is used for noise source sampling. Recommended clock configurations are detailed
in Section 48.6: RNG entropy source validation.

Note:

When the CED bit in the RNG_CR register is set to 0, the RNG clock frequency before the
internal divider must be higher than the AHB clock frequency divided by 32, otherwise the
clock checker always flags a clock error (CECS = 1 in the RNG_SR register).
See Section 48.3.1: RNG block diagram for details (AHB and RNG clock domains).

48.3.7

Error management
In parallel to random number generation a health check block verifies the correct noise
source behavior and the frequency of the RNG source clock as detailed in this section.
Associated error state is also described.

Clock error detection
When the clock error detection is enabled (CED = 0) and if the RNG clock frequency is too
low, the RNG sets to 1 both the CEIS and CECS bits to indicate that a clock error occurred.
In this case, the application must check that the RNG clock is configured correctly (see
Section 48.3.6: RNG clocking) and then it must clear the CEIS bit interrupt flag. The CECS
bit is automatically cleared when the clocking condition is normal.
Note:

The clock error has no impact on generated random numbers that is the application can still
read the RNG_DR register.
CEIS is set only when CECS is set to 1 by RNG.

Noise source error detection
When a noise source (or seed) error occurs, the RNG stops generating random numbers
and sets to 1 both SEIS and SECS bits to indicate that a seed error occurred. If a value is
available in the RNG_DR register, it must not be used as it may not have enough entropy.
When ARDIS is cleared (auto-reset enabled) clear the SEIS interrupt status bit in the
RNG_SR register before drawing random numbers again.
When ARDIS is set (auto-reset disabled) the following sequence must be used to fully
recover from a seed error: