2902

Universal synchronous/asynchronous receiver transmitter (USART/UART)

RM0456

Figure 833. RS232 CTS flow control
CTS

CTS

CTS
Transmit data register
TDR

Data 2

TX

Data 1

Data 3

empty

Stop Start
bit bit

Data 2

Writing data 3 in TDR

empty

Start
Stop
Idle
bit
bit

Data 3

Transmission of Data 3 is
delayed until CTS = 0
MSv68793V1

Note:

For correct behavior, CTS must be deasserted at least three USART clock source periods
before the end of the current character. In addition, it must be noted that the CTSCF flag
may not be set for pulses shorter than 2 x PCLK periods.

RS485 driver enable
The driver enable feature is enabled by setting bit DEM in the USART_CR3 control register.
This enables the user to activate the external transceiver control, through the DE (driver
enable) signal. The deassertion time is the time between the end of the last stop bit, in a
transmitted message, and the de-activation of the DE signal. It is programmed using the
DEDT [4:0] bitfields in the USART_CR1 control register. The polarity of the DE signal can be
configured using the DEP bit in the USART_CR3 control register.
In USART, the DEAT and DEDT are expressed in sample time units (1/8 or 1/16 bit time,
depending on the oversampling rate).

66.5.22

USART autonomous mode
The USART peripheral can be functional in Stop mode thanks to the autonomous mode.
This mode can also be used in Run and Sleep mode. The UESM bit must be set prior to
entering low-power mode.
The APB clock is requested by the peripheral each time the USART status needs to be
updated. Once the USART receives the APB clock, it generates either an interrupt or a DMA
request, depending on the peripheral configuration.
If an interrupt is generated, the device wakes up from Stop mode. If no interrupt is
generated, the device remains in Stop mode but the kernel and APB clocks are still
available for the USART and all the autonomous peripherals enabled in the reset and clock
controller (RCC). If DMA requests are enabled, the data are directly transferred to/from the
SRAM thanks to the DMA while the product remains in Stop mode.