1696

Digital camera interface (DCMI)

RM0456

Bit 6 HSPOL: Horizontal synchronization polarity
This bit indicates the level on the DCMI_HSYNC pin when the data are not valid on the
parallel interface.
0: DCMI_HSYNC active low
1: DCMI_HSYNC active high
Bit 5 PCKPOL: Pixel clock polarity
This bit configures the capture edge of the pixel clock.
0: Falling edge active
1: Rising edge active
Bit 4 ESS: Embedded synchronization select
0: Hardware synchronization data capture (frame/line start/stop) is synchronized with the
DCMI_HSYNC/DCMI_VSYNC signals.
1: Embedded synchronization data capture is synchronized with synchronization codes
embedded in the data flow.
Note: Valid only for 8-bit parallel data. HSPOL/VSPOL are ignored when the ESS bit is set.
This bit is disabled in JPEG mode.
Bit 3 JPEG: JPEG format
0: Uncompressed video format
1: This bit is used for JPEG data transfers. The DCMI_HSYNC signal is used as data enable.
The crop and embedded synchronization features (ESS bit) cannot be used in this mode.
Bit 2 CROP: Crop feature
0: The full image is captured. In this case the total number of bytes in an image frame must
be a multiple of four.
1: Only the data inside the window specified by the crop register is captured. If the size of the
crop window exceeds the picture size, then only the picture size is captured.
Bit 1 CM: Capture mode
0: Continuous grab mode - The received data are transferred into the destination memory
through the DMA. The buffer location and mode (linear or circular buffer) is controlled
through the system DMA.
1: Snapshot mode (single frame) - Once activated, the interface waits for the start of frame
and then transfers a single frame through the DMA. At the end of the frame, the CAPTURE
bit is automatically reset.
Bit 0 CAPTURE: Capture enable
0: Capture disabled
1: Capture enabled
The camera interface waits for the first start of frame, then a DMA request is generated to
transfer the received data into the destination memory.
In snapshot mode, the CAPTURE bit is automatically cleared at the end of the first frame
received.
In continuous grab mode, if the software clears this bit while a capture is ongoing, the bit is
effectively cleared after the frame end.
Note: The DMA controller and all DCMI configuration registers must be programmed correctly
before enabling this bit.