191

System security

3.7.2

RM0456

Embedded flash memory write protection
The embedded flash memory write protection (WRP) prevents illegal or unwanted
write/erase to special sections of the embedded flash memory user area (system area is
permanently write protected).
Write protected area is defined through the option bytes, writing the start and end
addresses: two write-protected areas can be defined in each bank, with the granularity of an
8-Kbyte page.
WRP areas can be modified through option byte changes unless the corresponding
FLASH_WRPxA/BR has its UNLOCK option bit cleared (meaning ROM emulation).
UNLOCK can be set only when regressing from RDP level 1 to level 0.

Note:

Bank erase aborts when it contains a write-protected area (WRP or HDP area).

3.7.3

Tamper detection and response
Principle
The devices include active protection of critical security assets against temperature, voltage
and frequency attacks, with the following features:
•

erasure of device secrets upon tamper detection

•

improved guarantee of safe execution for the CPU and its associated security
peripherals, including:
–

•

out-of-range voltage (example: VBAT, VDDA), temperature and clocking (LSE)
detection

–

security watchdog IWDG clocked by the internal oscillator LSI

–

possible selection of internal oscillator HSI as system clock

power supply protection
–

RTC/TAMP domain powered automatically with VDD or VBAT

See Section 64: Tamper and backup registers (TAMP) for more details.

Tamper detection sources
The devices support eight active input/output pins, allowing four independent active-tamper
meshes, or up to seven meshes if the same output pin is shared by several input pins (for a
total of eight active-tamper I/Os). The active-tamper balls are mapped in the center of
packages that can be used in POS market (such as WLCSP90).
The active pins are clocked by the LSE, and are functional in all system operating modes
(Run, Sleep, Stop, Standby or Shutdown), and in VBAT mode.
Detection time is programmable, and a digital filtering is available (tamper triggered after
two false comparison in four consecutive comparison samples).
Note: