3134

Universal serial bus full-speed host/device interface (USB)

RM0456

and waits for its acknowledgment. Since the packet buffer memory has also to be accessed
by the microcontroller, an arbitration logic takes care of the access conflicts, using half
APB2 cycle for microcontroller access and the remaining half for the USB peripheral
access. In this way, both agents can operate as if the packet memory would be a dual-port
SRAM, without being aware of any conflict even when the microcontroller is performing
back-to-back accesses. The USB peripheral logic uses a dedicated clock. The frequency of
this dedicated clock is fixed by the requirements of the USB standard at 48 MHz, and this
can be different from the clock used for the interface to the APB2 bus. Different clock
configurations are possible where the APB2 clock frequency can be higher or lower than the
USB peripheral one.
Note:

Due to USB data rate and packet memory interface requirements, the APB2 clock must
have a minimum frequency of 12 MHz to avoid data overrun/underrun problems.
Each endpoint is associated with two packet buffers (usually one for transmission and the
other one for reception). Buffers can be placed anywhere inside the packet memory
because their location and size is specified in a buffer description table, which is also
located in the packet memory. Each table entry is associated to an endpoint register and it is
composed of two 32-bit words so that table start address must always be aligned to an 8byte boundary. Buffer descriptor table entries are described in Section 71.7: USBSRAM
registers. If an endpoint is unidirectional and it is neither an isochronous nor a doublebuffered bulk, only one packet buffer is required (the one related to the supported transfer
direction). Other table locations related to unsupported transfer directions or unused
endpoints, are available to the user. Isochronous and double-buffered bulk endpoints have
special handling of packet buffers (Refer to Section 71.5.5: Isochronous transfers in Device
mode and Section 71.5.3: Double-buffered endpoints and usage in Device mode
respectively). The relationship between buffer description table entries and packet buffer
areas is depicted in Figure 892.
For Host mode different sections explain the buffer usage model, notably Section 71.5.6:
Isochronous transfers in Host mode and Section 71.5.4: Double buffered channels: usage in
Host mode.