To do to decrypt a region x (this task must be performed by the entity that owns the
corresponding key):
a)

Write the correct MODE[1:0] value in OTFDEC_RxCFGR.

b)

Program OTFDEC_RxKEYR registers using the sequence described in KEYCRC
(to have a valid CRC). Warning as key registers are write only.

c)

Check the key CRC. If OK, set KEYLOCK bit in OTFDEC_RxCFGR. This bit
cannot be cleared (key registers are no more writable).

d)

Fill the detailed information corresponding to the protected firmware (nonce, start
address, end address, version number).

e)

Enable decryption of this region using REG_EN.

f)

Set CONFIGLOCK bit in OTFDEC_RxCFGR. This bit cannot be cleared (the
region configuration is no more writable).

For a given region, when MODE bits are changed, the key registers and associated CRC
are cleared by hardware. As a consequence step a) above must be done before step b),
and MODE bits must not be modified after step b).

RM0456 Rev 6

RM0456

52.5.2

On-the-fly decryption engine (OTFDEC)

OTFDEC and power management
Each time OTFDEC is reset, the correct key loading sequence described in Section 52.5.1
must be performed (in this case KEYCRC = 0 in OTFDEC_RxCFGR).
It is recommended for application software to verify this point each time OTFDEC is reset by
hardware.

52.5.3

Encrypting for OTFDEC
Code and data standard encryption
OTFDEC uses standard AES in counter mode when processing a binary stored in a
protected region with MODE[1:0] = 10. When this mode is selected, any AES compatible
hardware accelerator or library can be used to encrypt those protected libraries. OTFDEC
can be used as well, as described in enhanced encryption section below (with
MODE[1:0] = 10).
Definition and endianness of the AES inputs and outputs are defined in Section 52.3.4:
OTFDEC usage of AES in counter mode decryption.

Enhanced encryption with OTFDEC
OTFDEC uses a proprietary layer of protection on top of the standard AES in counter mode
when processing a code stored in a protected region with MODE[1:0] = 11.
Enhanced encryption mode can be used to increase the robustness against tampering.
Recommended sequence to encrypt using OTFDEC is described below:
1.

The application in charge of the encryption sets the ENC bit in OTFDEC_CR. This
application must run in TrustZone secure mode when TrustZone security is enabled in
the product. If PRIV bit is set in OTFDEC_PRIVCFGR, this application must be
privileged.

2.

Encryption application initializes OTFDEC as described in Section 52.5.1: OTFDEC
initialization process. OCTOSPI must also be properly clocked, so that OTFDEC is fully
functional in encryption mode. This step can also be done before step 1.

3.

Encryption application writes 32-bit of clear-text data at the expected protected
address, then reads it back encrypted at the same address to store it in RAM. Note that
this data stays inside the device, as it is intercepted by OTFDEC in encryption mode.

4.

Encryption application goes back to previous step (changing the address) until the
whole binary is processed.

5.

Encryption application clears the ENC bit in OTFDEC_CR. Another application can
then take the encrypted binary and flash it to the correct address in external flash.

There are few important notes about this procedure:
•

Encryption granularity is 32-bit (single 32-bit access is mandatory).

•

While ENC bit is set, reads to non-encrypted regions return normal data (such as no
encryption nor decryption). While in encryption mode, no access to OCTOSPI
(including registers) must be done. This is because the OTFDEC cuts the
communication with OCTOPSI while ENC bit is set.

•

OTFDEC does not support execution while ENC = 1 (only encrypted data reads). Upon
illegal execution detection a XONEIF flag is raised and zero is returned.

RM0456 Rev 6