•

The memory-mapped mode is disabled and an AHB read or write request occurs.

•

A read or write address exceeds the size of the external memory.

•

An abort is received while a read or write burst is ongoing.

•

The OCTOSPI is disabled while a read or write burst is requested.

•

A write wrap burst is received.

•

A write request is received while DQSE = 0 in OCTOSPI_WCCR in octal DTR mode, in
dual-memory configuration, in HyperBus mode.

•

A read or write request is received while DMODE[2:0] = 000 (no data phase), except
when MTYP[2:0] is HyperBus.

•

Illegal access size when wrap read burst. This means that the AHB bus transfer size
(HSIZE) is different from 4 bytes (only for memory-mapped mode).

•

Bit DMM is set in OCTOSPI_CR (dual-memory configuration) and octal mode is set.

RM0456 Rev 6

RM0456

28.4.18

Octo-SPI interface (OCTOSPI)

OCTOSPI BUSY and ABORT
Once the OCTOSPI starts an operation with the external device, BUSY is automatically set
in OCTOSPI_SR.
In indirect mode, BUSY is reset once the OCTOSPI has completed the requested command
sequence and the FIFO is empty.
In automatic status-polling mode, BUSY goes low only after the last periodic access is
complete, due to a match when APMS = 1 or due to an abort.
After the first access in memory-mapped mode, BUSY goes low only on an abort.
Any operation can be aborted by setting ABORT in OCTOSPI_CR. Once the abort is
completed, BUSY and ABORT are automatically reset, and the FIFO is flushed.
Before setting ABORT, the software must ensure that all the current transactions are
finished using the synchronization barriers. When DMA is enabled to handle the data read
or write operations in OCTOSPI_DR, it is recommended to disable the DMA channel before
aborting the OCTOSPI.

Note:

Some devices may misbehave if a write operation to a status register is aborted.

28.4.19

OCTOSPI reconfiguration or deactivation
Before any OCTOSPI reconfiguration, the software must ensure that all the transactions are
completed:

28.4.20

•

After a memory-mapped write, the software must perform a dummy read followed
by a synchronization barrier, then an abort.

•

After a memory-mapped read, the software must perform a synchronization barrier
than an abort.

NCS behavior
By default, NCS is high, deselecting the external device. NCS falls before an operation
begins and rises as soon as it finishes.
When CKMODE = 0 (clock mode 0: CLK stays low when no operation is in progress), NCS
falls one CLK cycle before an operation first rising CLK edge, and NCS rises one CLK cycle
after the operation final rising CLK edge (see the figure below).
Figure 159. NCS when CKMODE = 0 (T = CLK period)
T

T

NCS

SCLK

MSv44100V1

RM0456 Rev 6