1599

Multi-function digital filter (MDF)

RM0456

The sample transfer from the RXFIFO to MDF_DFLTxDR takes two periods of the AHB
clock (mdf_hclk) and two periods of the mdf_ker_ck clock. The MDF inserts automatically
wait-states if the application performs a read operation of MDF_DFLTxDR while the transfer
of the new sample from the RXFIFO to MDF_DFLTxDR is not yet completed.
Figure 352. Data re-synchronization

MDF_DLFTxDR

sync

MDF

AHB clock domain

Digital filter processing (DFLTx)

RXFIFO

mdf_ker_ck clock domain
MSv62690V1

The MDF can also combine two transfer types: the independent-transfer and the
interleaved-transfer modes.

Independent-transfer mode
In this mode, each RXFIFO has its own DMA channel and its own FTHF flag event.
Both single and burst DMA transfers are supported in this mode, but the application must
care about the following points:
•

The RXFIFO must contain at least the same amount of samples than the burst size.

•

The burst mode efficiency may be reduced due to the data re-synchronization
explained in the previous section.

In addition, the application can select the RXFIFO threshold (FTH bit) to trigger the data
transfer: a data transfer can be triggered as soon as the RXFIFO is not empty, or when the
RXFIFO is half-full (containing depth / 2 samples).
For the DMA transfer, as soon as one of the RXFIFO reaches the threshold level, the
corresponding DMA request is asserted in order to ask for data transfer. Successive DMA
requests are performed as long as the corresponding RXFIFO is not empty.
The DMA mode of the RXFIFOx is enabled via the corresponding DMAEN bit in the MDF
digital filter control register x (MDF_DFLTxCR).
For the interrupt signaling, the following cases must be considered:
•

If FTH = 0, as soon as a data is available in MDF_DFLTxDR, the corresponding FTHF
is set, allowing the generation of an interrupt. FTHF is released as soon as
MDF_DFLTxDR is read.

•

If FTH = 1, as soon as one of the RXFIFO reaches the threshold level and a data is
available into MDF_DFLTxDR, the corresponding FTHF is set, allowing the generation
of an interrupt. The FTHF flag is released as soon as one data is read. FTHF is set
again if the threshold condition is met again. In this mode, every time an interrupt
occurs, the application is supposed to read FIFO_SIZE / 2 data.

The independent-transfer mode must be used when the sample rates provided by each filter
paths are not perfectly synchronous, or when the streams are independent. This situation
may occur for example:
•