3086

FD controller area network (FDCAN)

RM0456

Restricted operation mode
In restricted operation mode, the node is able to receive data and remote frames, and to
give acknowledge to valid frames, but it does not send data frames, remote frames, active
error frames, or overload frames. In case of an error condition or overload condition, it does
not send dominant bits. Instead, it waits for the occurrence of a bus-idle condition to
resynchronize itself to the CAN communication. The error counters (REC[6:0] and TEC[7:0]
in FDCAN_ECR) are frozen while the error logging (CEL[7:0]) is active. The software can
set the FDCAN into restricted operation mode by setting the ASM bit of FDCAN_CCCR. The
bit can only be set by software when both CCE and INIT bits are set in FDCAN_CCCR. The
bit can be cleared by software at any time.
Restricted operation mode is automatically entered when the Tx handler is not able to read
data from the message RAM in time. To leave restricted operation mode, the software has to
clear the ASM bit of FDCAN_CCCR.
The restricted operation mode can be used in applications that adapt themselves to different
CAN bit rates. In this case, the application tests different bit rates and leaves the restricted
operation mode after it has received a valid frame.
Note:

The restricted operation mode must not be combined with the loop-back mode (internal or
external).

Bus monitoring mode
The FDCAN is set in bus monitoring mode by setting the MON bit of the FDCAN_CCCR
register. In bus monitoring mode (for more details refer to ISO11898-1, 10.12 bus
monitoring), the FDCAN is able to receive valid data frames and valid remote frames, but
cannot start a transmission. In this mode, it sends only recessive bits on the CAN bus. If the
FDCAN is required to send a dominant bit (ACK bit, overload flag, active error flag), the bit is
rerouted internally so that the FDCAN can monitor it, even if the CAN bus remains in
recessive state. In bus monitoring mode, the FDCAN_TXBRP register is held in reset state.
The bus monitoring mode can be used to analyze the traffic on a CAN bus without affecting
it by the transmission of dominant bits. Figure 885 shows the connection of FDCAN_TX and
FDCAN_RX signals to the FDCAN in bus monitoring mode.
Figure 885. Pin control in bus monitoring mode
FDCAN_TX

FDCAN_RX

=1

Tx

Rx

FDCAN
MS41462V1