RM0456 Rev 6

RM0456

General purpose direct memory access controller (GPDMA)
(GPDMA_CxCR.TCIE = 1) or/and enables to continue with the autonomous GPDMA for
operating another LLIn+1 transfer over the same channel.
The output channel x transfer complete event, gpdma_chx_tc, can be programmed as
a selected input trigger for a channel if this event is looped-back and connected at the
GPDMA level (see Section 17.3.5), allowing autonomous and fine GPDMA inter-channel
transfer scheduling, without needing a cleared transfer complete flag (TCF).
A given GPDMA channel x asserts its clock request in one of the following conditions:
•

if the next transfer to be executed is programmed as conditioned by a trigger
(GPDMA_CxTR2.TRIGPOL[1:0] and GPDMA_CxTR2.TRIGM[1:0]), only when
the trigger hit occurs.

•

if the next transfer to be executed is not conditioned by a trigger:
–

if GPDMA_CxTR2.SWREQ = 0, only when the hardware request is asserted by
the selected peripheral

–

if GPDMA_CxTR2.SWREQ = 1 (memory-to-memory, GPIO to/from memory), as
soon as the GPDMA is enabled

The GPDMA channel x releases its clock request as soon as all the following conditions
are met:
•

The transfer to be executed is completed.

•

The GPDMA channel x is not immediately ready and requested to execute the next
transfer.

•

If a channel x interrupt was raised, all the flags of the status register that can cause this
interrupt, are cleared by a software agent.

When one channel asserts its clock request, the GPDMA asserts its clock request to the
RCC. When none channel asserts its clock request, the GPDMA releases its clock request
to the RCC.

17.5

GPDMA in debug mode
When the microcontroller enters debug mode (core halted), any channel x can be
individually either continued (default) or suspended, depending on the programmable
control bit in the DBGMCU module.

Note:

In debug mode, GPDMA_CxSR.SUSPF is not altered by a suspension from the
programmable control bit in the DBGMCU module. In this case, GPDMA_CxSR.IDLEF can
be checked to know the completion status of the channel suspension.

17.6

GPDMA in low-power modes
Table 142. Effect of low-power modes on GPDMA

Mode
Sleep

Description
No effect. GPDMA interrupts cause the device to exit Sleep mode.

RM0456 Rev 6