RM0456 Rev 6

RM0456

Flexible static memory controller (FSMC)

Bit 13 WAITEN: Wait enable bit
This bit enables/disables wait-state insertion via the NWAIT signal when accessing the memory in
Synchronous mode.
0: NWAIT signal is disabled (its level not taken into account, no wait state inserted after the
programmed flash latency period).
1: NWAIT signal is enabled (its level is taken into account after the programmed latency period to
insert wait states if asserted) (default after reset).
Bit 12 WREN: Write enable bit
This bit indicates whether write operations are enabled/disabled in the bank by the FMC.
0: Write operations are disabled in the bank by the FMC, an AHB error is reported.
1: Write operations are enabled for the bank by the FMC (default after reset).
Bit 11 WAITCFG: Wait timing configuration
The NWAIT signal indicates whether the data from the memory are valid or if a wait state must be
inserted when accessing the memory in Synchronous mode. This configuration bit determines if
NWAIT is asserted by the memory one clock cycle before the wait state or during the wait state:
0: NWAIT signal is active one data cycle before wait state (default after reset).
1: NWAIT signal is active during wait state (not used for PSRAM).
Bit 10 Reserved, must be kept at reset value.
Bit 9 WAITPOL: Wait signal polarity bit
Defines the polarity of the wait signal from memory used for either in Synchronous or Asynchronous
mode.
0: NWAIT active low (default after reset)
1: NWAIT active high
Bit 8 BURSTEN: Burst enable bit
This bit enables/disables synchronous accesses during read operations. It is valid only for
synchronous memories operating in Burst mode.
0: Burst mode disabled (default after reset). Read accesses are performed in Asynchronous mode.
1: Burst mode enable. Read accesses are performed in Synchronous mode.
Bit 7 Reserved, must be kept at reset value.
Bit 6 FACCEN: Flash access enable
Enables NOR flash memory access operations.
0: Corresponding NOR flash memory access is disabled.
1: Corresponding NOR flash memory access is enabled (default after reset).
Bits 5:4 MWID[1:0]: Memory data bus width
Defines the external memory device width, valid for all type of memories.
00: 8 bits
01: 16 bits (default after reset)
10: reserved
11: reserved
Bits 3:2 MTYP[1:0]: Memory type
Defines the type of external memory attached to the corresponding memory bank.
00: SRAM/FRAM (default after reset for Bank 2...4)
01: PSRAM (CRAM) / FRAM
10: NOR flash/OneNAND flash (default after reset for Bank 1)
11: reserved

RM0456 Rev 6