1259

Secure digital input/output MultiMediaCard interface (SDMMC)

RM0456

To perform the suspend/resume operation on the bus, the host performs the following steps:
1.

Determines the function currently using the SDMMC_D[3:0] line(s).

2.

Requests the lower-priority or slower transaction to suspend.

3.

Waits for the transaction suspension to complete.

4.

Begins the higher-priority transaction.

5.

Waits for the completion of the higher priority transaction.

6.

Restores the suspended transaction.

The card receiving a suspend command responds with its current bus status. Only when the
bus has been suspended by the card the bus status indicates suspension completed.
There are different suspend cases conditions:
•

Suspend request accepted prior to the start of data transfer.

•

Suspend request not accepted, (due to data being transfered at the same time), the
host keeps checking the request until it is accepted (data transfer has suspended).

•

Suspend request during write busy.

•

Suspend request with write multiple.

•

Suspend request during Read Wait.

For the host to know if the bus has been released it must check the status of the suspend
request, suspension completed.
When the bus status of the suspend request response indicates suspension completed, the
card has released the bus. At this time the state of the suspended operation must be saved
where after an other operation can start.
The suspend command must be sent with the CMDSUSPEND bit set. This makes possible
to start the interrupt period after the suspend command response when the bus is
suspended (response bit BS = 0).
The hardware does not save the number of remaining data to be transfered when resuming
the suspended operation. It is up to firmware to determine the data that has been
transferred and resume with the correct remaining number of data bytes.
While receiving data from the card, the SDMMC can suspend the read operation after the
read data block end (DPSM in Wait_R). After receiving the suspend acknowledgment
response from the card the following steps must be taken by firmware:
1.

The normal receive process must be stopped by setting DTHOLD bit.
a)

2.

The confirmation that all data has been read from the FIFO, and that the suspend is
completed is indicated by the DHOLD flag.
a)

Note: