3020

Serial audio interface (SAI)

RM0456

Bit 13 CPL: Complement bit.
This bit is set and cleared by software.
It defines the type of complement to be used for companding mode
0: 1’s complement representation.
1: 2’s complement representation.
Note: This bit has effect only when the companding mode is µ-Law algorithm or A-Law algorithm.
Bits 12:7 MUTECNT[5:0]: Mute counter.
These bits are set and cleared by software. They are used only in reception mode.
The value set in these bits is compared to the number of consecutive mute frames detected in
reception. When the number of mute frames is equal to this value, the flag MUTEDET is set and an
interrupt is generated if bit MUTEDETIE is set.
Refer to Section : Mute mode for more details.
Bit 6 MUTEVAL: Mute value.
This bit is set and cleared by software. It is meaningful only when the audio block operates as a
transmitter, the number of slots is lower or equal to 2 and the MUTE bit is set.
If more slots are declared, the bit value sent during the transmission in mute mode is equal to 0,
whatever the value of MUTEVAL.
if the number of slot is lower or equal to 2 and MUTEVAL = 1, the MUTE value transmitted for each
slot is the one sent during the previous frame.
Refer to Section : Mute mode for more details.
0: Bit value 0 is sent during the mute mode.
1: Last values are sent during the mute mode.
Note: This bit is meaningless and must not be used for SPDIF audio blocks.
Bit 5 MUTE: Mute.
This bit is set and cleared by software. It is meaningful only when the audio block operates as a
transmitter. The MUTE value is linked to value of MUTEVAL if the number of slots is lower or equal to
2, or equal to 0 if it is greater than 2.
Refer to Section : Mute mode for more details.
0: No mute mode.
1: Mute mode enabled.
Note: This bit is meaningless and must not be used for SPDIF audio blocks.
Bit 4 TRIS: Tristate management on data line.
This bit is set and cleared by software. It is meaningful only if the audio block is configured as a
transmitter. This bit is not used when the audio block is configured in SPDIF mode. It must be
configured when SAI is disabled.
Refer to Section : Output data line management on an inactive slot for more details.
0: SD output line is still driven by the SAI when a slot is inactive.
1: SD output line is released (HI-Z) at the end of the last data bit of the last active slot if the next one
is inactive.
Bit 3 FFLUSH: FIFO flush.
This bit is set by software. It is always read as 0. This bit must be configured when the SAI is
disabled.
0: No FIFO flush.
1: FIFO flush. Programming this bit to 1 triggers the FIFO Flush. All the internal FIFO pointers (read
and write) are cleared. In this case data still present in the FIFO are lost (no more transmission or
received data lost). Before flushing, SAI DMA stream/interrupt must be disabled