2902

Universal synchronous/asynchronous receiver transmitter (USART/UART)

RM0456

Bits 25:21 DEAT[4:0]: Driver Enable assertion time
This 5-bit value defines the time between the activation of the DE (Driver Enable) signal and
the beginning of the start bit. It is expressed in sample time units (1/8 or 1/16 bit time,
depending on the oversampling rate).
This bitfield can only be written when the USART is disabled (UE = 0).
Note: If the Driver Enable feature is not supported, this bit is reserved and must be kept at
reset value. Refer to Section 66.4: USART implementation.
Bits 20:16 DEDT[4:0]: Driver Enable deassertion time
This 5-bit value defines the time between the end of the last stop bit, in a transmitted
message, and the de-activation of the DE (Driver Enable) signal. It is expressed in sample
time units (1/8 or 1/16 bit time, depending on the oversampling rate).
If the USART_TDR register is written during the DEDT time, the new data is transmitted only
when the DEDT and DEAT times have both elapsed.
This bitfield can only be written when the USART is disabled (UE = 0).
Note: If the Driver Enable feature is not supported, this bit is reserved and must be kept at
reset value. Refer to Section 66.4: USART implementation.
Bit 15 OVER8: Oversampling mode
0: Oversampling by 16
1: Oversampling by 8
This bit can only be written when the USART is disabled (UE = 0).
Note: In LIN, IrDA and smartcard modes, this bit must be kept cleared.
Bit 14 CMIE: Character match interrupt enable
This bit is set and cleared by software.
0: Interrupt inhibited
1: USART interrupt generated when the CMF bit is set in the USART_ISR register.
Bit 13 MME: Mute mode enable
This bit enables the USART mute mode function. When set, the USART can switch between
active and mute mode, as defined by the WAKE bit. It is set and cleared by software.
0: Receiver in active mode permanently
1: Receiver can switch between mute mode and active mode.
Bit 12 M0: Word length
This bit is used in conjunction with bit 28 (M1) to determine the word length. It is set or
cleared by software (refer to bit 28 (M1)description).
This bit can only be written when the USART is disabled (UE = 0).
Bit 11 WAKE: Receiver wake-up method
This bit determines the USART wake-up method from mute mode. It is set or cleared by
software.
0: Idle line
1: Address mark
This bitfield can only be written when the USART is disabled (UE = 0).
Bit 10 PCE: Parity control enable
This bit selects the hardware parity control (generation and detection). When the parity
control is enabled, the computed parity is inserted at the MSB position (9th bit if M = 1; 8th bit
if M = 0) and the parity is checked on the received data. This bit is set and cleared by
software. Once it is set, PCE is active after the current byte (in reception and in
transmission).
0: Parity control disabled
1: Parity control enabled
This bitfield can only be written when the USART is disabled (UE = 0).