3291

USB on-the-go full-speed (OTG_FS)

RM0456

Bit 6 GINAKEFF: Global IN non-periodic NAK effective
Indicates that the Set global non-periodic IN NAK bit in the OTG_DCTL register (SGINAK bit
in OTG_DCTL), set by the application, has taken effect in the core. That is, the core has
sampled the Global IN NAK bit set by the application. This bit can be cleared by clearing the
Clear global non-periodic IN NAK bit in the OTG_DCTL register (CGINAK bit in
OTG_DCTL).
This interrupt does not necessarily mean that a NAK handshake is sent out on the USB. The
STALL bit takes precedence over the NAK bit.
Note: Only accessible in device mode.
Bit 5 NPTXFE: Non-periodic Tx FIFO empty
This interrupt is asserted when the non-periodic Tx FIFO is either half or completely empty,
and there is space for at least one entry to be written to the non-periodic transmit request
queue. The half or completely empty status is determined by the non-periodic Tx FIFO
empty level bit in the OTG_GAHBCFG register (TXFELVL bit in OTG_GAHBCFG).
Note: Accessible in host mode only.
Bit 4 RXFLVL: Rx FIFO non-empty
Indicates that there is at least one packet pending to be read from the Rx FIFO.
Note: Accessible in both host and device modes.
Bit 3 SOF: Start of frame
In host mode, the core sets this bit to indicate that an SOF (FS), or Keep-Alive (LS) is
transmitted on the USB. The application must write a 1 to this bit to clear the interrupt.
In device mode, in the core sets this bit to indicate that an SOF token has been received on
the USB. The application can read the OTG_DSTS register to get the current frame number.
This interrupt is seen only when the core is operating in FS.
Note: This register may return '1' if read immediately after power on reset. If the register bit
reads '1' immediately after power on reset it does not indicate that an SOF has been
sent (in case of host mode) or SOF has been received (in case of device mode). The
read value of this interrupt is valid only after a valid connection between host and
device is established. If the bit is set after power on reset the application can clear the
bit.
Note: Accessible in both host and device modes.
Bit 2 OTGINT: OTG interrupt
The core sets this bit to indicate an OTG protocol event. The application must read the OTG
interrupt status (OTG_GOTGINT) register to determine the exact event that caused this
interrupt. The application must clear the appropriate status bit in the OTG_GOTGINT
register to clear this bit.
Note: Accessible in both host and device modes.
Bit 1 MMIS: Mode mismatch interrupt
The core sets this bit when the application is trying to access:
– A host mode register, when the core is operating in device mode
– A device mode register, when the core is operating in host mode
The register access is completed on the AHB with an OKAY response, but is ignored by the
core internally and does not affect the operation of the core.
Note: Accessible in both host and device modes.
Bit 0 CMOD: Current mode of operation
Indicates the current mode.
0: Device mode
1: Host mode
Note: Accessible in both host and device modes.