3460

USB on-the-go high-speed (OTG_HS)

RM0456

Bit 21 STALL: STALL handshake
Applies to non-control, non-isochronous IN endpoints only (access type is rw).
The application sets this bit to stall all tokens from the USB host to this endpoint. If a NAK
bit, Global IN NAK, or Global OUT NAK is set along with this bit, the STALL bit takes priority.
Only the application can clear this bit, never the core.
Bit 20 Reserved, must be kept at reset value.
Bits 19:18 EPTYP[1:0]: Endpoint type
This is the transfer type supported by this logical endpoint.
00: Control
01: Isochronous
10: Bulk
11: Interrupt
Bit 17 NAKSTS: NAK status
It indicates the following:
0: The core is transmitting non-NAK handshakes based on the FIFO status.
1: The core is transmitting NAK handshakes on this endpoint.
When either the application or the core sets this bit:
For non-isochronous IN endpoints: The core stops transmitting any data on an IN endpoint,
even if there are data available in the Tx FIFO.
For isochronous IN endpoints: The core sends out a zero-length data packet, even if there
are data available in the Tx FIFO.
Irrespective of this bit’s setting, the core always responds to SETUP data packets with an
ACK handshake.
Bit 16 DPID: Endpoint data PID
Applies to interrupt/bulk IN endpoints only.
Contains the PID of the packet to be received or transmitted on this endpoint. The
application must program the PID of the first packet to be received or transmitted on this
endpoint, after the endpoint is activated. The application uses the SD0PID and SD1PID
register fields to program either DATA0 or DATA1 PID.
0: DATA0
1: DATA1
Bit 15 USBAEP: USB active endpoint
Indicates whether this endpoint is active in the current configuration and interface. The core
clears this bit for all endpoints (other than EP 0) after detecting a USB reset. After receiving
the SetConfiguration and SetInterface commands, the application must program endpoint
registers accordingly and set this bit.
Bits 14:11

Reserved, must be kept at reset value.

Bits 10:0 MPSIZ[10:0]: Maximum packet size
The application must program this field with the maximum packet size for the current logical
endpoint. This value is in bytes.