3460

USB on-the-go high-speed (OTG_HS)

RM0456

Bit 23 RSTDET: Reset detected interrupt
In device mode, this interrupt is asserted when a reset is detected on the USB in partial
power-down mode when the device is in suspend.
Note: Only accessible in device mode.
Bit 22 DATAFSUSP: Data fetch suspended
This interrupt is valid only in DMA mode. This interrupt indicates that the core has stopped
fetching data for IN endpoints due to the unavailability of TxFIFO space or request queue
space. This interrupt is used by the application for an endpoint mismatch algorithm. For
example, after detecting an endpoint mismatch, the application:
–
Sets a global nonperiodic IN NAK handshake
–
Disables IN endpoints
–
Flushes the FIFO
–
Determines the token sequence from the IN token sequence learning queue
–
Re-enables the endpoints
Clears the global nonperiodic IN NAK handshake If the global nonperiodic IN NAK is cleared,
the core has not yet fetched data for the IN endpoint, and the IN token is received: the core
generates an “IN token received when FIFO empty” interrupt. The OTG then sends a NAK
response to the host. To avoid this scenario, the application can check the FetSusp interrupt
in OTG_GINTSTS, which ensures that the FIFO is full before clearing a global NAK
handshake. Alternatively, the application can mask the “IN token received when FIFO empty”
interrupt when clearing a global IN NAK handshake.
Bit 21 INCOMPISOOUT: Incomplete isochronous OUT transfer
In device mode, the core sets this interrupt to indicate that there is at least one isochronous
OUT endpoint on which the transfer is not completed in the current frame. This interrupt is
asserted along with the End of periodic frame interrupt (EOPF) bit in this register.
Bit 20 IISOIXFR: Incomplete isochronous IN transfer
The core sets this interrupt to indicate that there is at least one isochronous IN endpoint on
which the transfer is not completed in the current frame. This interrupt is asserted along with
the End of periodic frame interrupt (EOPF) bit in this register.
Note: Only accessible in device mode.
Bit 19 OEPINT: OUT endpoint interrupt
The core sets this bit to indicate that an interrupt is pending on one of the OUT endpoints of
the core (in device mode). The application must read the OTG_DAINT register to determine
the exact number of the OUT endpoint on which the interrupt occurred, and then read the
corresponding OTG_DOEPINTx register to determine the exact cause of the interrupt. The
application must clear the appropriate status bit in the corresponding OTG_DOEPINTx
register to clear this bit.
Note: Only accessible in device mode.
Bit 18 IEPINT: IN endpoint interrupt
The core sets this bit to indicate that an interrupt is pending on one of the IN endpoints of the
core (in device mode). The application must read the OTG_DAINT register to determine the
exact number of the IN endpoint on which the interrupt occurred, and then read the
corresponding OTG_DIEPINTx register to determine the exact cause of the interrupt. The
application must clear the appropriate status bit in the corresponding OTG_DIEPINTx
register to clear this bit.
Note: Only accessible in device mode.
Bits 17:16 Reserved, must be kept at reset value.