482

Power control (PWR)

RM0456
3. Wait for 8 µs.
4. Increase the system frequency to the required frequency.

10.5.3

LDO and SMPS step down converter fast startup
After BOR reset, the LDO and SMPS regulators starts in slow-startup mode. This -startup
feature is selected to limit the inrush current after power-on reset. This increases
the wake-up time when exiting Stop or Standby mode.
However, it is possible to configure a faster startup on-the-fly, and it is applied for next
startup either after a system reset or after a wake-up from low-power mode except
Shutdown and VBAT modes. The fast startup is selected by setting FSTEN in PWR_CR3.

10.5.4

Dynamic voltage scaling management
The dynamic voltage scaling is a power management technique that consists in increasing
or decreasing the voltage used for the digital peripherals (VCORE), according to
the application performance and power consumption needs.
Dynamic voltage scaling to increase VCORE is known as overvolting. It allows the device
to improve its performance.
Dynamic voltage scaling to decrease VCORE is known as undervolting. It is performed to
save power, particularly in laptop and other mobile devices where the energy comes from a
battery and is thus limited.
The regulator operates in the following ranges:
• Range 1: high performance
It provides a typical output voltage at 1.2 V. It is used when the system clock frequency
is up to 160 MHz.
• Range 2: medium-high performance
It provides a typical output voltage at 1.1 V. It is used when the system clock frequency
is up to 110 MHz.
• Range 3: medium-low power range
It provides a typical output voltage at 1.0 V. The system clock frequency can be up to
55 MHz.
• Range 4: low-power range
It provides a typical output voltage at 0.9 V. The system clock frequency can be
up to 25 MHz.
Voltage scaling is selected through VOS[1:0] in PWR_VOSR. The EPOD (embedded power
distribution) booster must be enabled and ready before increasing the system clock
frequency above 55 MHz in range 1 and range 2.
The sequence to switch the voltage scaling from range L (lower power) to range P (higher
performance) with L > P, is the following:
1.