2526

Low-power timer (LPTIM)

58.4.12

RM0456

Counter mode
The LPTIM counter can be used to count external events on the LPTIM input1 or it can be
used to count internal clock cycles. The CKSEL and COUNTMODE bits control which
source is used for updating the counter.
In case the LPTIM is configured to count external events on Input1, the counter can be
updated following a rising edge, falling edge or both edges depending on the value written
to the CKPOL[1:0] bits.
The count modes below can be selected, depending on CKSEL and COUNTMODE values:
•

CKSEL = 0: the LPTIM is clocked by an internal clock source
–

COUNTMODE = 0
The LPTIM is configured to be clocked by an internal clock source and the LPTIM
counter is configured to be updated following each internal clock pulse.

–

COUNTMODE = 1
The LPTIM external Input1 is sampled with the internal clock provided to the
LPTIM.
Consequently, in order not to miss any event, the frequency of the changes on the
external Input1 signal must never exceed the frequency of the internal clock
provided to the LPTIM. Also, the internal clock provided to the LPTIM must not be
prescaled (PRESC[2:0] = 000).

•

CKSEL = 1: the LPTIM is clocked by an external clock source
COUNTMODE value is don’t care.
In this configuration, the LPTIM has no need for an internal clock source (except if the
glitch filters are enabled). The signal injected on the LPTIM external input1 is used as
system clock for the LPTIM. This configuration is suitable for operation modes where
no embedded oscillator is enabled.
For this configuration, the LPTIM counter can be updated either on rising edges or
falling edges of the input1 clock signal but not on both rising and falling edges.
Since the signal injected on the LPTIM external input1 is also used to clock the LPTIM
kernel logic, there is some initial latency (after the LPTIM is enabled) before the counter
is incremented. More precisely, the first five active edges on the LPTIM external Input1
(after LPTIM is enable) are lost.

58.4.13

Timer enable
The ENABLE bit located in the LPTIM_CR register is used to enable/disable the LPTIM
kernel logic. After setting the ENABLE bit, a delay of two counter clock cycles is needed
before the LPTIM is actually enabled.
The LPTIM_CFGR register must be modified only when the LPTIM is disabled.