2756

Inter-integrated circuit interface (I2C)

RM0456

support clock stretching, I2C must be configured with NOSTRETCH = 1 in the I2C_CR1
register.
After receiving an ADDR interrupt, if several addresses are enabled, the user must read the
ADDCODE[6:0] bitfield of the I2C_ISR register to check which address matched. The DIR
flag must also be checked to know the transfer direction.

Target with clock stretching
As long as the NOSTRETCH bit of the I2C_CR1 register is zero (default), the I2C peripheral
operating as an I²C-bus target stretches the SCL signal in the following situations:
•

The ADDR flag is set and the received address matches with one of the enabled target
addresses.
The stretch is released when the software clears the ADDR flag by setting the
ADDRCF bit.

•

In transmission, the previous data transmission is completed and no new data is written
in I2C_TXDR register, or the first data byte is not written when the ADDR flag is cleared
(TXE = 1).
The stretch is released when the data is written to the I2C_TXDR register.

•

In reception, the I2C_RXDR register is not read yet and a new data reception is
completed.
The stretch is released when I2C_RXDR is read.

•

In target byte control mode (SBC bit set) with reload (RELOAD bit set), the last data
byte transfer is finished (TCR bit set).
The stretch is released when then TCR is cleared by writing a non-zero value in the
NBYTES[7:0] bitfield.

•

After SCL falling edge detection.
The stretch is released after [(SDADEL + SCLDEL + 1) x (PRESC+ 1) + 1] x tI2CCLK
period.

Target without clock stretching
As long as the NOSTRETCH bit of the I2C_CR1 register is set, the I2C peripheral operating
as an I²C-bus target does not stretch the SCL signal.
The SCL clock is not stretched while the ADDR flag is set.
In transmission, the data must be written in the I2C_TXDR register before the first SCL
pulse corresponding to its transfer occurs. If not, an underrun occurs, the OVR flag is set in
the I2C_ISR register and an interrupt is generated if the ERRIE bit of the I2C_CR1 register
is set. The OVR flag is also set when the first data transmission starts and the STOPF bit is
still set (has not been cleared). Therefore, if the user clears the STOPF flag of the previous
transfer only after writing the first data to be transmitted in the next transfer, it ensures that
the OVR status is provided, even for the first data to be transmitted.
In reception, the data must be read from the I2C_RXDR register before the ninth SCL pulse
(ACK pulse) of the next data byte occurs. If not, an overrun occurs, the OVR flag is set in the
I2C_ISR register, and an interrupt is generated if the ERRIE bit of the I2C_CR1 register is
set.