RM0456 Rev 6

RM0456

Universal serial bus full-speed host/device interface (USB)

Bit 4 L2RES: L2 remote wake-up / resume driver
– Device mode
The microcontroller can set this bit to send remote wake-up signaling to the host. It must be
activated, according to USB specifications, for no less than 1 ms and no more than 15 ms
after which the host PC is ready to drive the resume sequence up to its end.
– Host mode
Software sets this bit to send resume signaling to the device.
Software clears this bit to send end of resume to device and restart SOF generation.
In the context of remote wake up, this bit is to be set following the WAKEUP interrupt.
0: No effect
1: Send L2 resume signaling to device
Bit 3 SUSPEN: Suspend state enable
– Condition: Device mode
Software can set this bit when the SUSP interrupt is received, which is issued when no traffic
is received by the USB peripheral for 3 ms. Software can also set this bit when the L1REQ
interrupt is received with positive acknowledge sent.
As soon as the suspend state is propagated internally all device activity is stopped, USB
clock is gated, USB transceiver is set into low power mode and the SUSPRDY bit is set by
hardware. In the case that device application wants to pursue more aggressive power saving
by stopping the USB clock source and by moving the microcontroller to stop mode, as in the
case of bus powered device application, it must first wait few cycles to see the
SUSPRDY = 1 acknowledge the suspend request.
This bit is cleared by hardware simultaneous with the WAKEUP flag set.
0: No effect
1: Enter L1/L2 suspend
– Condition: Host mode
Software can set this bit when host application has nothing scheduled for the next frames
and wants to enter long term power saving. When set, it stops immediately SOF generation
and any other host activity, gates the USB clock and sets the transceiver in low power mode.
If any USB transaction is on-going at the time SUSPEN is set, suspend is entered at the end
of the current transaction.
As soon as suspend state is propagated internally and gets effective the SUSPRDY bit is
set. In the case that host application wants to pursue more aggressive power saving by
stopping the USB clock source and by moving the micro-controller to STOP mode, it must
first wait few cycles to see SUSPRDY=1 acknowledge to the suspend request.
This bit is cleared by hardware simultaneous with the WAKEUP flag set.
0: No effect
1: Enter L1/L2 suspend
Bit 2 SUSPRDY: Suspend state effective
This bit is set by hardware as soon as the suspend state entered through the SUSPEN
control gets internally effective. In this state USB activity is suspended, USB clock is gated,
transceiver is set in low power mode by disabling the differential receiver. Only
asynchronous wake-up logic and single ended receiver is kept alive to detect remote wakeup or resume events.
Software must poll this bit to confirm it to be set before any STOP mode entry.
This bit is cleared by hardware simultaneously to the WAKEUP flag being set.
0: Normal operation
1: Suspend state

RM0456 Rev 6