•

The content of the ADC data register is frozen.

•

Any ongoing conversion is aborted with partial result discarded.

RM0456 Rev 6

RM0456

Analog-to-digital converter (ADC12)
•

No new DMA request is issued to the DMA controller. This avoids generating an
overrun error if there are still conversions, which are started.

•

Scan sequence is stopped and reset.

•

The DMA is stopped.

DMA circular mode (DMNGT[1:0] = 11)
In this mode, the ADC generates a DMA transfer request each time a new conversion data
is available in the data register, even if the DMA has reached the last DMA transfer. This
allows configuring the DMA in circular mode to handle a continuous analog input data
stream.
DMA with FIFO
The output data register features an eight-stage FIFO. Two different DMA requests are
generated in parallel. When a data is available, an “SREQ single request” is generated.
When four data are available, a “BREQ burst request” is generated. DMA can be
programmed either single transfer mode or incremental burst mode (four beats), according
to this mode, correct request line is selected by the DMA. Refer to the DMA chapter for
further information.

33.4.28

Managing conversions using the MDF
The ADC conversion results can be transferred directly to the MDF.
In this case, the DMNGT[1:0] bits must be set to 10.
The ADC transfers the 16 least significant bits of the regular data register to the MDF
through adcx_dat[15:0] bus, which in turn resets the EOC flag once the transfer is effective.
The data format must be in 16-bit signed format:
ADC_DR[31:16] = don’t care
ADC_DR[15] = sign
ADC_DR[14:0] = data
Any value above 16-bit signed format is truncated.

33.4.29

Dynamic low-power features
Auto-delayed conversion mode (AUTDLY)
The ADC implements an auto-delayed conversion mode controlled by the AUTDLY
configuration bit. Auto-delayed conversions are useful to simplify the software as well as to
optimize performance of an application clocked at low frequency where there would be risk
of encountering an ADC overrun.
When AUTDLY = 1, a new conversion can start only if all the previous data of the same
group has been treated:
•

For a regular conversion: once the ADC_DR register has been read or if the EOC bit
has been cleared (see Figure 243).

•

For an injected conversion: when the JEOS bit has been cleared (see Figure 244).

The auto-delayed conversion mode enables to automatically adapt the speed of the ADC to
the speed of the system which reads the data.

RM0456 Rev 6