3134

Universal serial bus full-speed host/device interface (USB)

RM0456

A brief description of a typical suspend procedure is provided below, focused on the USBrelated aspects of the application software routine responding to the SUSP notification of
the USB peripheral:
1.

Set the SUSPEN bit in the USB_CNTR register to 1. This action activates the suspend
mode within the USB peripheral. As soon as the suspend mode is activated, the check
on SOF reception is disabled to avoid any further SUSP interrupts being issued while
the USB is suspended.

2.

Remove or reduce any static power consumption in blocks different from the USB
peripheral.

3.

Set SUSPRDY bit in USB_CNTR register to 1 to remove static power consumption in
the analog USB transceivers but keeping them able to detect resume activity.

4.

Optionally turn off external oscillator and device PLL to stop any activity inside the
device.

When an USB event occurs while the device is in SUSPEND mode, the RESUME
procedure must be invoked to restore nominal clocks and regain normal USB behavior.
Particular care must be taken to ensure that this process does not take more than 10 ms
when the wakening event is an USB reset sequence (see “Universal Serial Bus
Specification” for more details). The start of a resume or reset sequence, while the USB
peripheral is suspended, clears the SUSPRDY bit in USB_CNTR register asynchronously.
Even if this event can trigger a WKUP interrupt if enabled, the use of an interrupt response
routine must be carefully evaluated because of the long latency due to system clock restart;
to have the shorter latency before re-activating the nominal clock it is suggested to put the
resume procedure just after the end of the suspend one, so its code is immediately
executed as soon as the system clock restarts. To prevent ESD discharges or any other kind
of noise from waking-up the system (the exit from suspend mode is an asynchronous
event), a suitable analog filter on data line status is activated during suspend; the filter width
is about 70 ns.
The following is a list of actions a resume procedure must address: