RM0456 Rev 6

RM0456

28.4.11

Octo-SPI interface (OCTOSPI)

OCTOSPI memory-mapped mode
When configured in memory-mapped mode, the external SPI device is seen as an internal
memory.

Note:

No more than 256 Mbytes can be addressed even if the external device capacity is larger.
If an access is made to an address outside of the range defined by DEVSIZE[4:0] but still
within the 256 Mbytes range, then an AHB error is given. The effect of this error depends on
the AHB master that attempted the access:
•

If it is the Cortex CPU, a hard-fault interrupt is generated.

•

If it is a DMA, a DMA transfer error is generated, and the corresponding DMA channel
is automatically disabled.

Byte, half-word, and word access types are all supported.
A support for execute in place (XIP) operation is implemented, where the OCTOSPI
continues to load the bytes to the addresses following the most recent access. If
subsequent accesses are continuous to the bytes that follow, then these operations end up
quickly since their results were prefetched.
By default, the OCTOSPI never stops its prefetch operation. It either keeps the previous
read operation active with the NCS maintained low or it relaunches a new transfer, even
if no access to the external device occurs for a long time.
Since external devices tend to consume more power when the NCS is held low, the
application may want to activate the timeout counter (TCEN = 1 in OCTOSPI_CR): the NCS
is released after a period defined by TIMEOUT[15:0] in OCTOSPI_LPTR, when x cycles
have elapsed without access since the clock is inactive.
BUSY goes high as soon as the first memory-mapped access occurs. Because of the
prefetch operations, BUSY does not fall until there is an abort, or the peripheral is disabled.
It is not recommended to program the flash memory using the memory-mapped writes.
The indirect-write mode fulfills this operation.
However, if the application requires the use of the MCE for encryption (check MCE product
availability), the memory-mapped write mode may be used to program encrypted data to
external flash memory under the following conditions:
•

Prefetch must be enabled.

•

In block cipher mode, the CPU must write a complete 128-bit data block to prevent the
MCE from initiating read-modify-write operations when only a few bytes need to be
programmed. This precaution avoids incorrect programming operations. There are no
specific constraints to respect if the MCE is used in stream cipher mode.

•

Apply the abort sequence to exit memory-mapped mode when the data linked to the
page has been written in the external memory buffers. The abort sequence triggers the
start of the page programming.

•

Switch to the automatic status-polling mode to monitor the completion of the page
programing phase.

•

Relaunch the write enable command in indirect mode, then switch back to the
memory-mapped mode configuration to continue to program additional pages if any.

It is recommended to add a synchronization barrier between the end of the controller
registers configuration and the first memory-mapped access to the external memory when
the controller is configured in memory-mapped mode.

RM0456 Rev 6