RM0456 Rev 6

RM0456

Analog-to-digital converter (ADC12)
complementary ADC is still sampling its input (only one ADC can sample the input signal at
a given time).
•

The minimum possible DELAY is 1 to ensure that there is at least one cycle time
between the opening of the analog switch of the master ADC sampling phase and the
closing of the analog switch of the slave ADC sampling phase.

•

The maximum DELAY is equal to the number of cycles corresponding to the selected
resolution. However, the user must properly calculate this delay to ensure that an ADC
does not start a conversion while the other ADC is still sampling its input.

If the CONT bit is set on both master and slave ADCs, the selected regular channels of both
ADCs are continuously converted.
The software is notified by interrupts when it can read the data at the end of each
conversion event (EOC) on the slave ADC. A slave and master EOC interrupts are
generated (if EOCIE is enabled) and the software can read the ADC_DR of the slave/master
ADC.
Note:

In 16-bit data format, enable only the slave EOC interrupt and read the common data
register (ADC12_CDR). For 32-bit data format, enable both the slave and master EOC
interrupts and read ADC12_CDR2 register. But in this case, the user must ensure that the
duration of the conversions are compatible to ensure that inside the sequence, a master
conversion is always followed by a slave conversion before a new master conversion
restarts. It is recommended to use the MDMA mode.
It is also possible to have the regular data transferred by DMA. In this case, individual DMA
requests on each ADC cannot be used and it is mandatory to use the DAMDF mode, as
following:
•

Configure DAMDF[1:0] = 10 or 11 (depending on resolution).

•

A single DMA channel is used (the one of the masters). Configure the DMA master
ADC channel to read the common ADC register (ADC12_CDR).

•

A single DMA request is generated each time both master and slave EOC events have
occurred. At that time, the slave ADC converted data is available in the upper half-word
of the ADC12_CDR 32-bit register and the master ADC converted data is available in
the lower half-word of the ADC12_CCR register.

•

Both EOC flags are cleared when the DMA reads the ADC12_CCR register.

RM0456 Rev 6