RM0456 Rev 6

RM0456

Serial peripheral interface (SPI)
content of one received data packet. Once one data packet is uploaded and one packet is
downloaded, the application software or the DMA checks again the DXP flag and repeats
the data packet read and write operation sequence until DXP is read as zero.
The drawback of services based on DXP exclusively is that servicing the TxFIFO is delayed
on purpose due to the SPI nature since the TXP events precedes the RXP ones. To allow
continuous SCK clock flow on the master side and prevent underrun on the slave side, it is
recommended to prefill a few data ahead to the TxFIFO at the transfer start, and wait until
the transfer is complete to read the last received data.

Hardware data counter
If a hardware data counter is used (TSIZE bitfield of the SPI_CR2 register set to a nonzero
value), the application software does not need to calculate the remaining number of data to
be handled. The end of transfer automatically controls the CRC, as well as the hardware SS
management, when used. The user application does not need to ensure that the overall
number of data is a multiple of the packet size. If the last data packet is incomplete, it is
serviced in the same way as any full packet. The unused part of this last packet is not
handled by the peripheral. Only the valid data are written into the TxFIFO and/or read from
the RxFIFO, and the redundant writes and reads are discarded. When the hardware counter
reaches zero, the EOT flag is raised, and the RXP flag is not set for the last data packet. If
the last packet is not aligned with the packet size, the TXP and EOT occupancy events are
not related to the configured packet size but to the number of remaining data calculated by
hardware.
If TSIZE is kept at zero (for example due to an unpredictable number of data), only the
number of transferred data corresponding to the FIFO thresholds is supported. If some data
are not aligned with the configured packet size, they may remain pending and available in
the RxFIFO. In this case, the FTHLV level is not reached and the RXP flag is not set. Then
the number of remaining received data frames in the RxFIFO is indicated by the RXWNE
and RXPLVL bitfields of the SPI_SR register. Nevertheless, the application software can still
read the complete data packet from the RxFIFO and the redundant data are read as zero.
To prevent such an unaligned data reception, the user must configure the FIFO threshold to
a single data (FTHLV = 0). In this case, each data frame is serviced by its own RXP
occupancy event.

Data transfer handling
Data are transferred using MOSI and MISO lines, depending on the SPI communication
mode and associated configuration. The mode is configured through the COMM[1:0] bitfield
of the SPI_CFG2 register. The HDDIR bit of the SPI_CR1 register controls the data flow
direction in half-duplex mode. The communication flow is handled by the master via the SS
and SCK signals. The slave selected for the communication is fully subordinated to the
master communication activity, no matter if it handles the data flow on time or not. The slave
can only temporarily suspend the master communication by using the RDY signal. The
active levels of RDY and SS signals can be changed, or MISO and MOSI functionality
swapped (via the RDIOP, SSIOP and IOSWP bits of the SPI_CFG2 register).
The SPI master transmitter can operate in full-duplex, simplex, or half-duplex mode. In fullduplex mode, data are received synchronously. The master starts the data transfer once the
CSTART bit of the SPI_CR1 register is set, provided the SPI is enabled and the TxFIFO

RM0456 Rev 6