1104

Octo-SPI interface (OCTOSPI)

RM0456

Bits 12:8 FTHRES[4:0]: FIFO threshold level
This bitfield defines, in indirect mode, the threshold number of bytes in the FIFO that causes
the FIFO threshold flag FTF in OCTOSPI_SR, to be set.
00000: FTF is set if there are one or more free bytes available to be written to in the FIFO
in indirect-write mode, or if there are one or more valid bytes can be read from the FIFO
in indirect-read mode.
00001: FTF is set if there are two or more free bytes available to be written to in the FIFO
in indirect-write mode, or if there are two or more valid bytes can be read from the FIFO
in indirect-read mode.
...
11111: FTF is set if there are 32 free bytes available to be written to in the FIFO in
indirect-write mode, or if there are 32 valid bytes can be read from the FIFO in indirect-read
mode.
Note: If DMAEN = 1, the DMA controller for the corresponding channel must be disabled
before changing the FTHRES[4:0] value.
Bit 7 MSEL: External memory select
This bit selects the external memory to be addressed in single-, dual-, quad-SPI mode in
single-memory configuration (when DMM = 0).
0: External memory 1 selected (data exchanged over IO[3:0])
1: External memory 2 selected (data exchanged over IO[7:4])
This bit is ignored when DMM = 1 or when octal-SPI mode is selected.
Bit 6 DMM: Dual-memory configuration
This bit activates the dual-memory configuration, where two external devices are used
simultaneously to double the throughput and the capacity
0: Dual-memory configuration disabled
1: Dual-memory configuration enabled
Note: This bit can be modified only when BUSY = 0.
Bits 5:4 Reserved, must be kept at reset value.
Bit 3 TCEN: Timeout counter enable
This bit is valid only when the memory-mapped mode (FMODE[1:0] = 11) is selected. This bit
enables the timeout counter.
0: The timeout counter is disabled, and thus the chip-select (NCS) remains active indefinitely
after an access in memory-mapped mode.
1: The timeout counter is enabled, and thus the chip-select is released in the memorymapped mode after TIMEOUT[15:0] cycles of external device inactivity.
Note: This bit can be modified only when BUSY = 0.
Bit 2 DMAEN: DMA enable
In indirect mode, the DMA can be used to input or output data via OCTOSPI_DR. DMA
transfers are initiated when FTF is set.
0: DMA disabled for indirect mode
1: DMA enabled for indirect mode
Note: Resetting the DMAEN bit while a DMA transfer is ongoing, breaks the handshake with
the DMA. Do not write this bit during DMA operation.
Bit 1 ABORT: Abort request
This bit aborts the ongoing command sequence. It is automatically reset once the abort is
completed. This bit stops the current transfer.
0: No abort requested
1: Abort requested
Note: This bit is always read as 0.