763

General purpose direct memory access controller (GPDMA)

RM0456

Bit 8 TCIE: transfer complete interrupt enable
0: interrupt disabled
1: interrupt enabled
Bits 7:3 Reserved, must be kept at reset value.
Bit 2 SUSP: suspend
Writing 1 into the field RESET (bit 1) causes the hardware to de-assert this bit, whatever is
written into this bit 2. Else:
Software must write 1 in order to suspend an active channel (channel with an ongoing
GPDMA transfer over its master ports).
The software must write 0 in order to resume a suspended channel, following the
programming sequence detailed in Figure 53.
0: write: resume channel, read: channel not suspended
1: write: suspend channel, read: channel suspended.
Bit 1 RESET: reset
This bit is write only. Writing 0 has no impact. Writing 1 implies the reset of the following: the
FIFO, the channel internal state, SUSP and EN bits (whatever is written receptively in bit 2
and bit 0).
The reset is effective when the channel is in steady state, meaning one of the following:
- active channel in suspended state (GPDMA_CxSR.SUSPF = 1 and
GPDMA_CxSR.IDLEF = GPDMA_CxCR.EN = 1)
- channel in disabled state (GPDMA_CxSR.IDLEF = 1 and GPDMA_CxCR.EN = 0).
After writing a RESET, to continue using this channel, the user must explicitly reconfigure the
channel including the hardware-modified configuration registers (GPDMA_CxBR1,
GPDMA_CxSAR, and GPDMA_CxDAR) before enabling again the channel
(see the programming sequence in Figure 54).
0: no channel reset
1: channel reset
Bit 0 EN: enable
Writing 1 into the field RESET (bit 1) causes the hardware to de-assert this bit, whatever is
written into this bit 0. Else:
this bit is deasserted by hardware when there is a transfer error (master bus error or user
setting error) or when there is a channel transfer complete (channel ready to be configured,
for example if LSM = 1 at the end of a single execution of the LLI).
Else, this bit can be asserted by software.
Writing 0 into this EN bit is ignored.
0: write: ignored, read: channel disabled
1: write: enable channel, read: channel enabled

17.8.10

GPDMA channel x transfer register 1 (GPDMA_CxTR1)
Address offset: 0x90 + 0x80 * x (x = 0 to 15)
Reset value: 0x0000 0000
This register is secure or nonsecure depending on the secure state of channel x
(GPDMA_SECCFGR.SECx) except for secure DSEC and SSEC, privileged or
non-privileged, depending on the privileged state of the channel x in
GPDMA_PRIVCFGR.PRIVx.
This register controls the transfer of a channel x.
This register must be written when GPDMA_CxCR.EN = 0.