RM0456 Rev 6

RM0456

AES hardware accelerator (AES)
CCM payload phase (encryption or decryption)
This phase, identical for encryption and decryption, is executed after the CCM header
phase. During this phase, the encrypted/decrypted payload is stored in the AES_DOUTR
register. The sequence to execute is:

Note:

1.

Indicate the payload phase, by setting to 10 the GCMPH[1:0] bitfield of the AES_CR
register. Do not modify the MODE[1:0] bitfield as set in the Init phase.

2.

If the header phase was skipped, enable the AES peripheral by setting the EN bit of the
AES_CR register.

3.

If it is the last data block to encrypt and the plaintext size in the block is inferior to 128
bits, pad the remainder of the block with zeros.

4.

Append the data block into AES in one of ways described in Section 49.4.4: AES
procedure to perform a cipher operation on page 1929, and read the result.

5.

Repeat the previous step till the second-last plaintext block is encrypted or till the last
block of ciphertext is decrypted. For the last block of plaintext (encryption only), apply
the two previous steps. For the last block, discard the data that is not part of the
payload when the last block size is less than 16 bytes.

The payload phase can be skipped if there is no payload data, that is, Len(P) = 0 or
Len(C) = Len(T).
Remove LSBLen(T)(C) encrypted tag information when decrypting ciphertext C.
CCM final phase
In this last phase, the AES peripheral generates the GCM authentication tag and stores it in
the AES_DOUTR register. The sequence to execute is:
1.

Note:

Indicate the final phase, by setting to 11 the GCMPH[1:0] bitfield of the AES_CR
register.

2.

Wait until the end-of-computation flag CCF of the AES_SR register is set.

3.

Read four times the AES_DOUTR register: the output corresponds to the CCM
authentication tag.

4.

Clear the CCF flag of the AES_SR register by setting the CCF bit of the AES_ICR
register.

5.

Disable the AES peripheral, by clearing the EN bit of the AES_CR register.

6.

For authenticated decryption, compare the generated encrypted tag with the encrypted
tag padded in the ciphertext.

In this final phase, swapping is applied to tag data read from AES_DOUTR register.
When transiting from the header phase to the final phase, the AES peripheral must not be
disabled, otherwise the result is wrong.
Application must mask the authentication tag output with tag length to obtain a valid tag.

Suspend/resume operations in CCM mode
To suspend the processing of a message in header or payload phase, proceed as
follows:
1.

If DMA is used, stop the AES DMA transfers to the IN FIFO by clearing the DMAINEN
bit of the AES_CR register. If DMA is not used, make sure that the current computation
is completed, which is indicated by the CCF flag of the AES_SR register set to 1.

2.

In the payload phase, if DMA is not used, read four times the AES_DOUTR register to
save the last-processed block. If DMA is used, wait until the CCF flag is set in the
RM0456 Rev 6