24

PTXFE HCINT

RM0456 Rev 6

RM0456

USB on-the-go high-speed (OTG_HS)

Bit 31 WKUPINT: Resume/remote wake-up detected interrupt
Wake-up interrupt during suspend(L2) or LPM(L1) state.
– During suspend(L2):
In device mode, this interrupt is asserted when a resume is detected on the USB. In host
mode, this interrupt is asserted when a remote wake-up is detected on the USB.
– During LPM(L1):
This interrupt is asserted for either host initiated resume or device initiated remote wake-up
on USB.
Note: Accessible in both device and host modes.
Bit 30 SRQINT: Session request/new session detected interrupt
In host mode, this interrupt is asserted when a session request is detected from the device.
In device mode, this interrupt is asserted when VBUS is in the valid range for a B-peripheral
device. Accessible in both device and host modes.
Bit 29 DISCINT: Disconnect detected interrupt
Asserted when a device disconnect is detected.
Note: Only accessible in host mode.
Bit 28 CIDSCHG: Connector ID status change
The core sets this bit when there is a change in connector ID status.
Note: Accessible in both device and host modes.
Bit 27 LPMINT: LPM interrupt
In device mode, this interrupt is asserted when the device receives an LPM transaction and
responds with a non-ERRORed response.
In host mode, this interrupt is asserted when the device responds to an LPM transaction with
a non-ERRORed response or when the host core has completed LPM transactions for the
programmed number of times (RETRYCNT bit in OTG_GLPMCFG).
This field is valid only if the LPMEN bit in OTG_GLPMCFG is set to 1.
Bit 26 PTXFE: Periodic Tx FIFO empty
Asserted when the periodic transmit FIFO is either half or completely empty and there is
space for at least one entry to be written in the periodic request queue. The half or completely
empty status is determined by the periodic Tx FIFO empty level bit in the OTG_GAHBCFG
register (PTXFELVL bit in OTG_GAHBCFG).
Note: Only accessible in host mode.
Bit 25 HCINT: Host channels interrupt
The core sets this bit to indicate that an interrupt is pending on one of the channels of the
core (in host mode). The application must read the OTG_HAINT register to determine the
exact number of the channel on which the interrupt occurred, and then read the
corresponding OTG_HCINTx register to determine the exact cause of the interrupt. The
application must clear the appropriate status bit in the OTG_HCINTx register to clear this bit.
Note: Only accessible in host mode.
Bit 24 HPRTINT: Host port interrupt
The core sets this bit to indicate a change in port status of one of the OTG_HS controller
ports in host mode. The application must read the OTG_HPRT register to determine the
exact event that caused this interrupt. The application must clear the appropriate status bit in
the OTG_HPRT register to clear this bit.
Note: Only accessible in host mode.

RM0456 Rev 6