1674

Audio digital filter (ADF)

RM0456

The sequence below shows the most important programming steps (assuming that DFLTEN
is set to 0):
1.

Configure and enable the clock generator (CKGEN), so that the frequency of
adf_proc_ck clock is compatible with the targeted application (see examples in
Table 403).

2.

Enable the CKGEN and, if needed, enable the ADF_CCK0 and ADF_CCK1 clocks.

3.

Program the filter configuration, and set the ACQMOD[2:0] to 011.

4.

Set to 1 the SITFEN bit.

5.

Select the proper trigger source and sensitivity.

6.

Before setting DFLTEN to 1, wait for DFLTACTIVE = 0: it insures that the previous filter
deactivation sequence terminated properly.

7.

Set DFLTEN to 1.

8.

When the trigger condition is met, the filter starts the acquisition and provides one data
to the RXFIFO, then the filter is ready to accept a new trigger.

TRGSENS allows the selection of the trigger edge (rising or falling). The trigger is ignored if
an acquisition is ongoing, or if DFLTEN is set to 0.
Figure 375 shows a simplified example where the trigger logic is sensitive to a rising edge
trigger (TRGSENS = 0). Every-time a trigger rising edge is detected with DFLTEN = 1, an
acquisition sequence is triggered. The first samples provided by the filter can be discarded if
needed. At the end of each conversion, the decimation counters and filter taps are reset.
DFLTRUN is set to 0 and the filter is ready to start a new conversion.
Figure 375. Synchronous single-shot mode (ACQMOD[2:0] = 011)
DFLTEN
adf_trgi
Discard (note)
X

DFLT0 output

...

X

Discard (note)

S1

X

...

X OFF
S2
Dropped !

DFLTRUN
DFLTACTIVE

ADF_CCKx
Note: the discard phase is optional.

Note:

MSv63662V1

The acquisition can be stopped by setting DFLTEN back to 0. This resets the filter and
flushes the RXFIFO, so the samples located into the RXFIFO are lost. The ongoing DMA
transfer is properly terminated. DFLTACTIVE goes back to 0 when the filter chain is reset
and the RXFIFO flushed.
Figure 374 shows a case where the DFLTEN is set to 0 while an acquisition is ongoing
(the sample S2 is lost). This situation can be avoided with the following steps: