RM0456 Rev 6

RM0456

2.1.9

Memory and bus architecture

GFXMMU-bus
This bus connects the GFXMMU master interface to the bus matrix. This bus is used only by
the GFXMMU to load/store data from/to the memory. This bus targets the data memories:
internal flash memory, internal SRAMs (SRAM1, SRAM2, SRAM3, SRAM5, and SRAM6)
and external memories through FSMC, HSPI1, or OCTOSPIs. The GFXMMU has also a
slave bus connection to be accessed by graphical peripheral master buses.

2.1.10

SDMMC1 and SDMMC2 controllers DMA buses
These buses connect the SDMMC1 and SDMMC2 DMA master interfaces to the bus matrix.
These buses are used only by the SDMMC1 and SDMMC2 DMA to load/store data from/to
the memory. These buses target the data memories: internal flash memory, internal SRAMs
(SRAM1, SRAM2, SRAM3, SRAM5, and SRAM6) and external memories through FSMC,
HSPI1, or OCTOSPIs.

2.1.11

Bus matrix
The bus matrix manages the access arbitration between masters. The arbitration uses a
round-robin algorithm. This bus matrix features a fast bus multiplexer used to connect each
master to a given slave without latency (see Figure 1). For the same master, other slaves
undergo a latency of at least one cycle at each new access.

2.1.12

AHB/APB bridges
The three AHB/APB bridges provide full synchronous connections between the AHB and
the APB buses, allowing flexible selection of the peripheral frequency.
Refer to Section 2.3.2: Memory map and register boundary addresses for the address
mapping of the peripherals connected to these bridges.
After each device reset, all peripheral clocks are disabled (except for the internal SRAMs
and flash memory interfaces). Before using a peripheral, its clock must be enabled in the
RCC_AHBxENR and RCC_APBxENR registers.

Note:

When an 8- or 16-bit access is performed on an APB register, the access is transformed into
a 32-bit access: the bridge duplicates the 8- or 16-bit data to feed the 32-bit vector.

2.1.13

SmartRun domain (SRD)
The SRD architecture relies on a DMA allowing autonomous operation during low-power
modes down to Stop 2.
This architecture also features a 32-bit AHB bus matrix that interconnects:
•

•

Note:

two masters:
–

the main AHB bus matrix

–

LPDMA1 (low-power DMA featuring one master port)

two slaves:
–

AHB3 peripherals including AHB to APB bridge connected to APB3

–

internal SRAM4

The SRAM4 is the only SRAM that can be accessed by the LPDMA1.

RM0456 Rev 6