960

CORDIC coprocessor (CORDIC)

25.3.8

RM0456

Interrupt mode
By setting the interrupt enable (IE) bit in the CORDIC_CSR register, an interrupt is
generated whenever the RRDY flag is set. The interrupt is cleared when the flag is reset.
This mode allows the result of the calculation to be read under interrupt service routine, and
hence given a priority relative to other tasks. However, it is slower than directly reading the
result, or polling the flag, due to the interrupt handling delays.

25.3.9

DMA mode
If the DMA write enable (DMAWEN) bit is set in the CORDIC_CSR register, and no
operation is pending, a DMA write channel request is generated. The DMA controller can
transfer a primary input argument (ARG1) from memory into the CORDIC_WDATA register.
Writing into the register deasserts the DMA request. If NARGS = 1 in the CORDIC_CSR
register, a second DMA write channel request is generated to transfer the secondary input
argument (ARG2) into the CORDIC_WDATA register. When all input arguments have been
written, and any ongoing calculation has been completed (by reading the results), a new
calculation is started and another DMA write channel request is generated.
If the DMA read enable (DMAREN) bit is set in the CORDIC_CSR register, the RRDY flag
going active generates a DMA read channel request. The DMA controller can then transfer
the primary result (RES1) from the CORDIC_RDATA register to memory. Reading the
register deasserts the DMA request. If NRES = 1 in the CORDIC_CSR register, a second
DMA request is generated to read out the secondary result (RES2). When all results have
been read, the RRDY flag is deasserted.
The DMA read and write channels can be enabled separately. If both channels are enabled,
the CORDIC can autonomously perform repeated calculations on a buffer of data without
processor intervention. This allows the processor to perform other tasks. The DMA
controller is operating in memory-to-peripheral mode for the write channel, and peripheralto-memory mode for the read channel. The sequence is started by the processor setting the
DMAWEN flag, the DMA read and write requests are generated as fast as the CORDIC can
process the data.
In some cases, the input data may be stored in memory, and the output is transferred at
regular intervals to another peripheral, such as a digital-to-analog converter. In this case,
the destination peripheral generates a DMA request each time it needs a new data. The
DMA controller can directly fetch the next sample from the CORDIC_RDATA register (in this
case the DMA controller is operating in memory-to-peripheral mode, even though the
source is a peripheral register). The act of reading the result allows the CORDIC to start a
new calculation, which in turn generates a DMA write channel request, and the DMA
controller transfers the next input value to the CORDIC_WDATA register. The DMA write
channel is enabled (DMAWEN = 1), but the read channel must not be enabled.
In a similar way, data coming from another peripheral, such as an ADC, can be transferred
directly to the CORDIC_WDATA register (in peripheral-to-memory mode). The DMA write
channel must not be enabled. The CORDIC processes the input data and generates a DMA
read request when complete, if DMAREN = 1. The DMA controller then transfers the result
from CORDIC_RDATA register to memory (peripheral-to-memory mode).

Note: