1377

Analog-to-digital converter (ADC12)

RM0456

Figure 261. Regular simultaneous mode on 16 channels: dual ADC mode

MASTER ADC
SLAVE ADC

...

CH1

CH2

CH3

CH4

CH16

CH14

CH13

CH12 ...

Trigger
Sampling

CH16
CH1
End of regular sequence on
MASTER and SLAVE ADC

Conversion
ai16054b

If DISCEN = 1 then each “n” simultaneous conversions of the regular sequence require a
regular trigger event to occur (“n” is defined by DISCNUM).
This mode can be combined with AUTDLY mode:
•

Once a simultaneous conversion of the sequence has ended, the next conversion in
the sequence is started only if the common data register, ADC12_CDR (or the regular
data register of the master ADC) has been read (delay phase).

•

Once a simultaneous regular sequence of conversions has ended, a new regular
trigger event is accepted only if the common data register (ADC12_CDR) has been
read (delay phase). Any new regular trigger events occurring during the ongoing
regular sequence and the associated delay phases are ignored.

It is possible to use the DMA to handle data in regular simultaneous mode combined with
AUTDLY mode, assuming that multi-DMA mode is used: DAMDF[1:0] bits must be set to 10
or 11.
When regular simultaneous mode is combined with AUTDLY mode, it is mandatory for the
user to ensure that:

Note:

•

The number of conversions in the master’s sequence is equal to the number of
conversions in the slave sequence.

•

For each simultaneous conversion of the sequence, the length of the conversion of the
slave ADC is inferior to the length of the conversion of the master ADC. Note that the
length of the sequence depends on the number of channels to convert and the
sampling time and the resolution of each channel.

This combination of regular simultaneous mode and AUTDLY mode is restricted to the use
case when only regular channels are programmed: it is forbidden to program injected
channels in this combined mode.

Interleaved mode with independent injected
This mode is selected by programming bits DUAL[4:0] = 00111.
This mode can be started only on a regular group (usually one channel). The external
trigger source comes from the regular channel multiplexer of the master ADC.
After an external trigger occurs:
•

The master ADC starts immediately.

•

The slave ADC starts after a delay of several ADC clock cycles after the sampling
phase of the master ADC has complete.

The minimum delay which separates two conversions in interleaved mode is configured in
the DELAY bits in the ADC12_CCR register. This delay starts to count after the end of the
sampling phase of the master conversion. This way, an ADC cannot start a conversion if the