3134

Universal serial bus full-speed host/device interface (USB)

RM0456

description table entry, leaving unaffected BLSIZE and NUM_BLOCK fields, which normally
do not require to be re-written, and the USB_CHEPnR register is updated in the following
way: DTOGRX bit is toggled, the endpoint is made invalid by setting STATRX = 10 (NAK)
and bit VTRX is set. If the transaction has failed due to errors or buffer overrun condition,
none of the previously listed actions take place. The application software must first identify
the endpoint, which is requesting microcontroller attention by examining the IDN and DIR
bits in the USB_ISTR register. The VTRX event is serviced by first determining the
transaction type (SETUP bit in the USB_CHEPnR register); the application software must
clear the interrupt flag bit and get the number of received bytes reading the COUNTn_RX
location inside the buffer description table entry related to the endpoint being processed.
After the received data is processed, the application software must set the STATRX bits to
11 (VALID) in the USB_CHEPnR, enabling further transactions. While the STATRX bits are
equal to 10 (NAK), any OUT request addressed to that endpoint is NAKed, indicating a flow
control condition: the USB host retries the transaction until it succeeds. It is mandatory to
execute the sequence of operations in the above mentioned order to avoid losing the
notification of a second OUT transaction addressed to the same endpoint following
immediately the one which triggered the CTR interrupt.

Data reception in Host mode (IN packets)
Data reception in Host mode follows the same general principles as Device mode. The main
differences are again due to the protocol. In the device, data can be received or not,
depending on readiness after previous operations, whereas the host only requests receive
data when it is ready and able to store them.
ADDRn_TX must be set to the location in the packet memory reserved for the packet for
transmission. The contents received in the data phase response to the IN token packet are
then written to that address in the packet memory and COUNTn_TX gets updated by
hardware during this process to indicate the number of bytes in the packet.
DEVADDR must be written for the correct endpoint and then STATRX must be set to VALID
in order to trigger the reception. The reception is then scheduled by the HFS.
After a successful reception the interrupt CTR (correct transfer) is triggered. By examining
IDN and DIR bits, the corresponding channel and direction is understood. On the indicated
channel, the STATRX field now has transitioned to DISABLE. In the case of a NAK being
received (when the peripheral is not ready) STATRX now is in NAK. In the case of a STALL
response, STATRX is in STALL. In this last case, the bus must be reset. During an IN packet
an error condition is signaled via the bits VTRX and ERR_RX if one of the following
conditions occurs:
•

False EOP

•

Bit stuffing error

•

Wrong CRC

Control transfers in Device mode
Control transfers are made of a SETUP transaction, followed by zero or more data stages,
all of the same direction, followed by a status stage (a zero-byte transfer in the opposite
direction). SETUP transactions are handled by control endpoints only and are very similar to
OUT ones (data reception) except that the values of DTOGTX and DTOGRX bits of the
addressed endpoint registers are set to 1 and 0 respectively, to initialize the control transfer,
and both STATTX and STATRX are set to 10 (NAK) to let software decide if subsequent
transactions must be IN or OUT depending on the SETUP contents. A control endpoint must
check SETUP bit in the USB_CHEPnR register at each VTRX event to distinguish normal