3134

Universal serial bus full-speed host/device interface (USB)

RM0456

Host channels are divided in two categories:
–

Periodic channels: isochronous and interrupt traffic types. With guaranteed
bandwith access.

–

Non-periodic channels: bulk and control traffic types. With best effort service.

The host frame scheduler organizes the full-speed frame in 3 sequential windows
–

Periodic service window

–

Non-periodic service window

–

Black security window

At the start of a new frame, the host scheduler:

71.5

1.

First considers all periodic channels which were active (STAT bits VALID) at the start of
frame

2.

Executes single round of service of periodic channels, the periodic service window, in
hardware priority order from CH#1 to CH#8. For bidirectional channels it executes the
OUT direction first

3.

When the periodic round is finished, HFS closes the periodic service window and stops
servicing periodic traffic even if some periodic channel was re-enabled or some new
channel was enabled after the SOF.

4.

Starts servicing all non-periodic channels which are currently active (STAT bits VALID)
in hardware priority order from CH#1 to CH#8. For bidirectional channels it executes
the OUT direction first.

5.

Executes multiple round-robin service cycles of non-periodic channels until almost the
end of frame

6.

Non-periodic traffic can be requested at any time and is serviced by HFS with best
effort latency, with the exception of a black security window at the end of the frame
where new injected requests are directly postponed to the next frame to avoid babbles.
This is also true for pending transactions which have not been serviced ahead of the
security window.

Programming considerations for Device and Host modes
In the following sections, the expected interactions between the USB peripheral and the
application program are described, in order to ease application software development.

71.5.1

Generic USB Device programming
This part describes the main tasks required of the application software in order to obtain
USB compliant behavior. The actions related to the most general USB events are taken into
account and paragraphs are dedicated to the special cases of double-buffered endpoints
and isochronous transfers. Apart from system reset, an action is always initiated by the USB
peripheral, driven by one of the USB events described below.