RM0456 Rev 6

RM0456

68.4.12

Serial peripheral interface (SPI)

SPI data transmission and reception procedures
The SPI can transfer data at a very high communication speed. Even though the data is
FIFO buffered, handling a continuous data flow by servicing data frames individually leads
to an enormous CPU or DMA load, in particular when the data size is small. This potentially
leads to a significant limitation of the overall system performance, as well as communication
errors such as data overrun or underrun that may be raised when the system latencies in
servicing requests become comparable to single data frame transfer time.
The SPI offers advanced hardware control features to prevent these issues from occurring:
•

Decreasing the number of events requiring service by collecting the data frames into
larger data packets
The number of data frames per packet (FIFO threshold) can be configured. The
complete data packet generates a FIFO occupancy event, which is then handled within
a single, compact, service.

•

Note:

Decreasing the number of CPU execution cycles required for the service, by applying
the appropriate data access:
–

The widest access to the SPI data registers must be applied. This allows
cumulative data to be handled by a single register read or write operation (data
packing).

–

The number of read/write accesses necessary to complete the data packet must
be aligned with the data frame size and the FIFO threshold.

•

Concurrent read and write services to handle full-duplex data flow based on
common FIFO occupancy events.

•

Embedded hardware data counters to define the exact number of data involved in
transfers.

Using these features is optional. Nothing prevents the application from handling the data
flow frame by frame.
The following sections give more details and describe specific cases for using these
advanced hardware control features to handle data transfers.

Data packet control
The data frame size (number of bits in the frame) is defined through the DSIZE bitfield of the
SPI_CFG1 register. The number of data frames per packet can be configured by selecting
the FIFO threshold through the FTHLV bitfield of the SPI_CFG1 register. If the threshold
value is set to zero, each completed data frame raises the FIFO occupancy event. The data
packet occupancy must not exceed half of the FIFO size, which depends on the SPI
instance of the product. The FIFO capacity (multiple of 8 bits) is consumed according to the
following rules, depending on the data frame size:
•

Data frames from 4 to 8 bits occupy one byte of the FIFO.

•

Data frames from 9 to 16 bits occupy two bytes of the FIFO.

•

Data frames from 17 to 24 bits occupy three bytes of the FIFO.

•

Data frames from 25 to 32 bits occupy four bytes of the FIFO.

For example, if the FIFO capacity is 16 bytes, it accommodates up to five 24-bit frames. In
this case, the data packet configuration must not exceed two data frames.
The SPI features two separate FIFOs to handle the reception and transmission data flow,
the RxFIFO, and the TxFIFO. Their content can be handled by monitoring the occupancy

RM0456 Rev 6