RM0456 Rev 6

RM0456

Low-power universal asynchronous receiver transmitter (LPUART)

Parity checking in reception
If the parity check fails, the PE flag is set in the LPUART_ISR register and an interrupt is
generated if PEIE is set in the LPUART_CR1 register. The PE flag is cleared by software
writing 1 to the PECF in the LPUART_ICR register.

Parity generation in transmission
If the PCE bit is set in LPUART_CR1, then the MSB bit of the data written in the data
register is transmitted but is changed by the parity bit (even number of “1s” if even parity is
selected (PS = 0) or an odd number of “1s” if odd parity is selected (PS = 1)).

67.4.12

LPUART single-wire half-duplex communication
Single-wire half-duplex mode is selected by setting the HDSEL bit in the LPUART_CR3
register.
The LPUART can be configured to follow a single-wire half-duplex protocol where the TX
and RX lines are internally connected. The selection between half- and full-duplex
communication is made with a control bit HDSEL in LPUART_CR3.
As soon as HDSEL is written to 1:
•

The TX and RX lines are internally connected.

•

The RX pin is no longer used

•

The TX pin is always released when no data is transmitted. Thus, it acts as a standard
I/O in idle or in reception. It means that the I/O must be configured so that TX is
configured as alternate function open-drain with an external pull-up.

Apart from this, the communication protocol is similar to normal LPUART mode. Any conflict
on the line must be managed by software (for instance by using a centralized arbiter). In
particular, the transmission is never blocked by hardware and continues as soon as data is
written in the data register while the TE bit is set.
Note:

In LPUART communications, in the case of 1-stop bit configuration, the RXNE flag is set in
the middle of the stop bit.

67.4.13

Continuous communication using DMA and LPUART
The LPUART is capable of performing continuous communication using the DMA. The DMA
requests for Rx buffer and Tx buffer are generated independently.

Note:

Refer to Section 67.3: LPUART implementation to determine if the DMA mode is supported.
If DMA is not supported, use the LPUSRT as explained in Section 67.4.7. To perform
continuous communication. When FIFO is disabled, clear the TXE/ RXNE flags in the
LPUART_ISR register.

Transmission using DMA
DMA mode can be enabled for transmission by setting the DMAT bit in the LPUART_CR3
register. Data are loaded from an SRAM area configured using the DMA peripheral (refer to
Section direct memory access controller) to the LPUART_TDR register whenever the TXE
flag (TXFNF flag if FIFO mode is enabled) is set. To map a DMA channel for LPUART
transmission, use the following procedure (x denotes the channel number):

RM0456 Rev 6