821

Low-power direct memory access controller (LPDMA)

RM0456

Bit 11 ULEIE: update link transfer error interrupt enable
0: interrupt disabled
1: interrupt enabled
Bit 10 DTEIE: data transfer error interrupt enable
0: interrupt disabled
1: interrupt enabled
Bit 9 HTIE: half transfer complete interrupt enable
0: interrupt disabled
1: interrupt enabled
Bit 8 TCIE: transfer complete interrupt enable
0: interrupt disabled
1: interrupt enabled
Bits 7:3 Reserved, must be kept at reset value.
Bit 2 SUSP: suspend
Writing 1 into the field RESET (bit 1) causes the hardware to de-assert this bit, whatever is
written into this bit 2. Else:
Software must write 1 in order to suspend an active channel (with an ongoing DMA transfer
over its master ports).
The software must write 0 in order to resume a suspended channel, following the
programming sequence detailed in Figure 74.
0: write: resume channel, read: channel not suspended
1: write: suspend channel, read: channel suspended.
Bit 1 RESET: reset
This bit is write only. Writing 0 has no impact. Writing 1 implies the reset of the following: the
channel internal state, SUSP and EN bits (whatever is written receptively in bit 2 and bit 0).
The reset is effective when the channel is in steady state, meaning one of the following:
- active channel in suspended state (LPDMA_CxSR.SUSPF = 1 and
LPDMA_CxSR.IDLEF = LPDMA_CxCR.EN = 1)
- channel in disabled state (LPDMA_CxSR.IDLEF = 1 and LPDMA_CxCR.EN = 0).
After writing a RESET, to continue using this channel, the user must explicitly reconfigure the
channel including the hardware-modified configuration registers (LPDMA_CxBR1,
LPDMA_CxSAR and LPDMA_CxDAR) before enabling again the channel (see the
programming sequence in Figure 75).
0: no channel reset
1: channel reset
Bit 0 EN: enable
Writing 1 into the field RESET (bit 1) causes the hardware to de-assert this bit, whatever is
written into this bit 0. Else:
this bit is de-asserted by hardware when there is a transfer error (master bus error or user
setting error) or when there is a channel transfer complete (channel ready to be configured,
for example: if LSM = 1 at the end of a single execution of the LLI).
Else, this bit can be asserted by software.
Writing 0 into this EN bit is ignored.
0: write: ignored, read: channel disabled
1: write: enable channel, read: channel enabled