1599

Multi-function digital filter (MDF)

RM0456

Bit 8 TRGSENS: CKGEN trigger sensitivity selection
This bit is set and cleared by software. It is used to select the trigger sensitivity of the trigger
signals. This bit is not significant if the CKGMOD = 0.
0: A rising edge event triggers the activation of CKGEN dividers.
1: A falling edge even triggers the activation of CKGEN dividers.
Note: When the trigger source is TRGO, TRGSENS value is not taken into account. When
TRGO is selected, the sensitivity is forced to falling edge. This bit can be write-protected
(refer to Section 39.4.15 for details).
Bit 7 Reserved, must be kept at reset value.
Bit 6 CCK1DIR: MDF_CCK1 direction
This bit is set and reset by software.It is used to control the direction of the MDF_CCK1 pin.
0: MDF_CCK1 pin direction is in input.
1: MDF_CCK1 pin direction is in output.
Note: This bit can be write-protected (refer to Section 39.4.15 for details).
Bit 5 CCK0DIR: MDF_CCK0 direction
This bit is set and reset by software.It is used to control the direction of the MDF_CCK0.
0: MDF_CCK0 pin direction is in input.
1: MDF_CCK0 pin direction is in output.
Note: This bit can be write-protected (refer to Section 39.4.15 for details).
Bit 4 CKGMOD: Clock generator mode
This bit is set and reset by software. It is used to define the way the clock generator is
enabled. This bit must not be changed if one of the filters is enabled (DFTEN = 1).
0: The kernel clock is provided to the dividers as soon as CKGDEN is set to 1.
1: The kernel clock is provided to the dividers when CKGDEN is set to 1 and the trigger
condition met.
Note: This bit can be write-protected (refer to Section 39.4.15 for details).
Bit 3 Reserved, must be kept at reset value.
Bit 2 CCK1EN: MDF_CCK1 clock enable
This bit is set and reset by software. It is used to control the generation of the bitstream clock
on the MDF_CCK1 pin.
0: Bitstream clock not generated
1: Bitstream clock generated on the MDF_CCK1 pad
Bit 1 CCK0EN: MDF_CCK0 clock enable
This bit is set and reset by software.It is used to control the generation of the bitstream clock
on the MDF_CCK0 pin.
0: Bitstream clock not generated
1: Bitstream clock generated on the MDF_CCK0 pad
Bit 0 CKGDEN: CKGEN dividers enable
This bit is set and reset by software. It is used to enable/disable the clock dividers of the
CKGEN: PROCDIV and CCKDIV.
0: CKGEN dividers disabled
1: CKGEN dividers enabled