•

DSI_LVCIDR.VCID field configures the virtual channel ID that is indexed to the video
mode packets using the LTDC interface.

•

DSI_GHCR register configures the packet header (which includes the virtual channel
ID to be used) for transmissions using APB register interface.

•

DSI_GVCIDR register configures the virtual channel ID of the read responses to store
and return to the generic interface.
RM0456 Rev 6

RM0456

44.11

DSI Host (DSI)

Functional description: video mode pattern generator
The video mode pattern generator allows the transmission of horizontal/vertical color bar
and D-PHY BER testing pattern without any stimuli.
The frame requirements must be defined in video registers that are listed in Table 442.
Table 442. Frame requirement configuration registers

44.11.1

Register name

Description

DSI Host video mode configuration

Video mode configuration

DSI Host video packet configuration

Video packet size

DSI Host video chunks configuration

Number of chunks

DSI Host video null packet configuration

Null packet size

DSI Host video HSA configuration

Horizontal sync active time

DSI Host video HBP configuration

Horizontal back-porch time

DSI Host video line configuration

Line time

DSI Host video VSA configuration

Vertical sync active period

DSI Host video VBP configuration

Vertical back-porch period

DSI Host video VFP configuration

Vertical front-porch period

DSI Host video VA configuration

Vertical resolution

Color bar pattern
The color bar pattern comprises eight bars for white, yellow, cyan, green, magenta, red,
blue, and black colors.
Each color width is calculated by dividing the line pixel size (vertical pattern) or the number
of lines (horizontal pattern) by eight. In the vertical color bar mode (Figure 439), each single
color bar has a width of the number of pixels in a line divided by eight. In case the number of
pixels in a line is not divisible by eight, the last color (black) contains the remaining.
In the horizontal color bar mode (Figure 440), each color line has a color width of the
number of lines in a frame divided by eight. In case the number of lines in a frame is not
divisible by eight, the last color (black) contains the remaining lines.

RM0456 Rev 6