The user creates a SFI image, composed of:
–

encrypted internal firmware and data (including external flash memory drivers)

–

encrypted external firmware and data AES key (up to 4)

–

encrypted external firmware and data image

The secure bootloader stored in the system memory, loads the second part of the
secure bootloader in SRAM, through the supported communication ports (USART, SPI,
I²C, FDCAN, USB, and JTAG). This second part runs in the secure SRAM and is
responsible for executing the SFI process, applying the SFI protocol thanks to the
commands received through the above mentioned supported communication ports.

RM0456 Rev 6

RM0456

System security
3.

The internal flash memory is programmed with decrypted option bytes, internal
firmware and data, and external firmware and data AES keys. Alternatively, device
unique external firmware AES keys can be used instead of such global keys.

4.

The OTFDEC is properly initialized with encrypted region information, including the
corresponding external firmware and data AES key.

5.

Running the SFI process, chunks of encrypted external firmware and data image are
decrypted in the device, then re-encrypted in the OTFDEC.

6.

After a chunk OTFDEC re-encryption, the user external flash memory programmer is
responsible for programming the last encrypted chunks to the external SPI flash
memories through the OCTOSPI.

Alternatively, external firmware and data AES keys for OTFDEC can be generated on the
device, if they are not generated by the signing tool.

Secure boot
After provisioning, each time the device initializes on a trusted firmware, the following
actions are required:
1.

Secure-boot firmware executes, programming the external firmware and data AES
keys to the OTFDEC write-only key registers, along with the other needed information.

2.

The application reads or executes the encrypted external firmware and data through
the OCTOSPI in memory mapped mode, unless a tamper event is detected. In this
case, all OTFDEC keys are erased and encrypted regions are read as zero until the
OTFDEC is properly initialized again.

For more information on SFI solutions for the devices, refer to the application note: “STM32
MCUs secure firmware install (SFI) overview” (AN4992).

3.12.3

Other software intellectual property protections
The device additional protections to software intellectual property are:
•

Invasive attacks such as physical tampering or perturbation are countered by detection
then decommissioning of the device before the detected attack succeeds.

•

Non-invasive attacks, such as side channel attacks, are countered by not leaking
secret information via side channels such as timing, power, and EM emissions.

RM0456 Rev 6