If VDDA is independent from VDD:
a)

Enable the AVM1 or AVM2 by setting AVM1EN or AVM2EN in PWR_SVMCR.

b)

Wait for the AVM wake-up time.

c)

Wait until VDDA1RDY or VDDA2RDY is set in PWR_SVMCR.

d)

Disable the AVM for consumption saving (optional).

Set the ASV in PWR_SVMCR to remove the VDDA power isolation.

PVM is not functional in Shutdown mode.

RM0456 Rev 6

RM0456

10.6.4

Power control (PWR)

Backup domain voltage and temperature monitoring
When the backup domain voltage and temperature monitoring is enabled (MONEN = 1
in PWR_DBPR), the backup domain voltage and the temperature are monitored. This
monitoring is not functional in Shutdown mode.
If the backup domain voltage monitoring internal tamper is enabled in the TAMP peripheral
(ITAMP1E = 1 in TAMP_CR1), a tamper event is generated when the backup domain
voltage is above the functional range. In case the backup domain voltage is below the
functional range, a brownout reset is generated, erasing all device including backup domain.

Note:

The backup domain voltage is VDD when present, VBAT otherwise.
If the temperature monitoring internal tamper is enabled in the TAMP peripheral
(ITAMP2E = 1 in TAMP_CR1), a tamper event is generated when the temperature is above
or below the functional range.

Note:

Backup domain voltage and temperature monitoring is not functional in Shutdown mode.

10.7

PWR power management

10.7.1

Power modes
By default, the microcontroller is in Run mode after a system or a power reset. Reducing the
power consumption in Run mode is done by configuring the voltage scaling according to
application performance needs. Refer to Section 10.5.4 for more details. Unused RAMs can
be powered-off with SRAMxPD bits in PWR_CR1. The power consumption is also reduced
by reducing SYSCLK, HCLK, and PCLK clocks speed, or gating unused peripherals clocks.
Refer to Section 11: Reset and clock control (RCC) for more details.
Several low-power modes are available to save power when the CPU does not need to be
kept running, for example when waiting for an external event. It is up to the user to select the
mode that gives the best compromise between low-power consumption, short startup time
and available wake-up sources.
The device features these low-power modes:
•

Sleep mode:
CPU clock off, all peripherals including Cortex-M33 core such as NVIC and SysTick
can run and wake up the CPU when an interrupt or an event occurs. Refer to
Section 10.7.5.

•

Stop 0, Stop 1, Stop 2, Stop 3 modes:
Stop mode achieves the lowest power consumption while retaining the content of
SRAM and registers. The SRAMs can be totally or partially switched off to further
reduce consumption. All clocks in the core domain are stopped. The PLL, the MSI
(MSIS and MSIK) RC, the HSI16 RC and the HSE crystal oscillators are disabled. The
LSE or LSI is still running.
The RTC can remain active (Stop mode with RTC, Stop mode without RTC).
Some peripherals are autonomous and can operate in Stop mode by requesting their
kernel clock and their bus (APB or AHB) when needed, in order to transfer data with
DMA (GPDMA1 or LPDMA1 depending on peripherals and power mode).
In Stop 2 and Stop 3 modes, most of the core domain is put in a lower leakage mode.
Stop 0 and Stop 1 offers the largest number of active peripherals and wake-up sources,

RM0456 Rev 6