RM0456 Rev 6

RM0456

Digital-to-analog converter (DAC)
The software must clear the DMAUDRx flag by writing 1, clear the DMAEN bit of the used
DMA stream and re-initialize both DMA and DAC channelx to restart the transfer correctly.
The software must modify the DAC trigger conversion frequency or lighten the DMA
workload to avoid a new DMA underrun. Finally, the DAC conversion can be resumed
by enabling both DMA data transfer and conversion trigger.
For each DAC channelx, an interrupt is also generated if its corresponding DMAUDRIEx bit
in the DAC_CR register is enabled.

DMA double data mode
When the DMA controller is used in normal mode, only 12-bit (or 8-bit) data are transferred
by a DMA request. As the AHB width is 32 bits, two 12-bit data may be transferred
simultaneously. To use this mode, set the DMADOUBLEx bit of DAC_MCR register.
A DAC DMA request is generated every two external triggers (except for software triggers)
when the DMAENx bit is set:
1.

When the first trigger is detected, the value of the DAC_DHRx and DAC_DHRBx
registers are transferred into the DAC_DORx and DAC_DORBx registers. The actual
DAC data is loaded into the DAC_DORx register. A DMA request is then generated.
The DMA writes the new data to the DAC_DHRx and DAC_DHRBx data registers.

2.

When the next trigger is detected, the actual DAC data is loaded into the DAC_DHRBx
register. This second trigger does not generate any DMA request. The DORSTATx bit
indicates which DOR data is actually loaded into the analog DAC input.

DMA underrun function is also supported in DMA double data mode.
The following conditions must be met to change from double data to single data mode or
vice versa:

35.4.10

•

The DAC must be disabled.

•

DMAEN bit must be cleared (ENx = 0 and DMAEN = 0).

Noise generation
In order to generate a variable-amplitude pseudonoise, an LFSR (linear feedback shift
register) is available. DAC noise generation is selected by setting WAVEx[1:0] to 01. The
preloaded value in LFSR is 0xAAA. This register is updated three dac_hclk clock cycles
after each trigger event, following a specific calculation algorithm.

RM0456 Rev 6