2902

Universal synchronous/asynchronous receiver transmitter (USART/UART)

RM0456

The number of retries is programmed in the SCARCNT bitfield. If the USART continues
receiving the NACK after the programmed number of retries, it stops transmitting and
signals the error as a framing error. The TXE bit (TXFNF bit in case FIFO mode is
enabled) may be set using the TXFRQ bit in the USART_RQR register.

Note:

•

Smartcard auto-retry in transmission: A delay of 2.5 baud periods is inserted between
the NACK detection by the USART and the start bit of the repeated character. The TC
bit is set immediately at the end of reception of the last repeated character (no guard
time). If the software wants to repeat it again, it must ensure the minimum 2-baud
periods required by the standard.

•

If a parity error is detected during reception of a frame programmed with a 1.5 stop bit
period, the transmit line is pulled low for a baud clock period after the completion of the
receive frame. This is to indicate to the smartcard that the data transmitted to the
USART has not been correctly received. A parity error is NACKed by the receiver if the
NACK control bit is set, otherwise a NACK is not transmitted (to be used in T = 1
mode). If the received character is erroneous, the RXNE (RXFNE in case FIFO mode
is enabled)/receive DMA request is not activated. According to the protocol
specification, the smartcard must resend the same character. If the received character
is still erroneous after the maximum number of retries specified in the SCARCNT
bitfield, the USART stops transmitting the NACK and signals the error as a parity error.

•

Smartcard auto-retry in reception: the BUSY flag remains set if the USART NACKs the
card but the card doesn’t repeat the character.

•

In transmission, the USART inserts the guard time (as programmed in the guard time
register) between two successive characters. As the guard time is measured after the
stop bit of the previous character, the GT[7:0] register must be programmed to the
desired CGT character guard time, as defined by the 7816-3 specification) minus 12
(the duration of one character).

•

The assertion of the TC flag can be delayed by programming the guard time register. In
normal operation, TC is asserted when the transmit shift register is empty and no
further transmit requests are outstanding. In smartcard mode an empty transmit shift
register triggers the guard time counter to count up to the programmed value in the
guard time register. TC is forced low during this time. When the guard time counter
reaches the programmed value TC is asserted high. The TCBGT flag can be used to
detect the end of data transfer without waiting for guard time completion. This flag is set
just after the end of frame transmission and if no NACK has been received from the
card.

•

The de-assertion of TC flag is unaffected by smartcard mode.

•

If a framing error is detected on the transmitter end (due to a NACK from the receiver),
the NACK is not detected as a start bit by the receive block of the transmitter.
According to the ISO protocol, the duration of the received NACK can be 1 or 2 baud
clock periods.

•

On the receiver side, if a parity error is detected and a NACK is transmitted the receiver
does not detect the NACK as a start bit.

Break characters are not significant in smartcard mode. A 0x00 data with a framing error is
treated as data and not as a break.
No Idle frame is transmitted when toggling the TE bit. The Idle frame (as defined for the
other configurations) is not defined by the ISO protocol.
Figure 826 shows how the NACK signal is sampled by the USART. In this example the
USART is transmitting data and is configured with 1.5 stop bits. The receiver part of the
USART is enabled in order to check the integrity of the data and the NACK signal.