3134

Universal serial bus full-speed host/device interface (USB)

RM0456

Bit 15 CTRM: Correct transfer interrupt mask
0: Correct transfer (CTR) interrupt disabled.
1: CTR interrupt enabled, an interrupt request is generated when the corresponding bit in the
USB_ISTR register is set.
Bit 14 PMAOVRM: Packet memory area over / underrun interrupt mask
0: PMAOVR interrupt disabled.
1: PMAOVR interrupt enabled, an interrupt request is generated when the corresponding bit
in the USB_ISTR register is set.
Bit 13 ERRM: Error interrupt mask
0: ERR interrupt disabled.
1: ERR interrupt enabled, an interrupt request is generated when the corresponding bit in the
USB_ISTR register is set.
Bit 12 WKUPM: Wake-up interrupt mask
0: WKUP interrupt disabled.
1: WKUP interrupt enabled, an interrupt request is generated when the corresponding bit in
the USB_ISTR register is set.
Bit 11 SUSPM: Suspend mode interrupt mask
0: Suspend mode request (SUSP) interrupt disabled.
1: SUSP interrupt enabled, an interrupt request is generated when the corresponding bit in
the USB_ISTR register is set.
Bit 10 RST_DCONM: USB reset request (Device mode) or device connect/disconnect (Host mode)
interrupt mask
0: RESET interrupt disabled.
1: RESET interrupt enabled, an interrupt request is generated when the corresponding bit in
the USB_ISTR register is set.
Bit 9 SOFM: Start of frame interrupt mask
0: SOF interrupt disabled.
1: SOF interrupt enabled, an interrupt request is generated when the corresponding bit in the
USB_ISTR register is set.
Bit 8 ESOFM: Expected start of frame interrupt mask
0: Expected start of frame (ESOF) interrupt disabled.
1: ESOF interrupt enabled, an interrupt request is generated when the corresponding bit in
the USB_ISTR register is set.
Bit 7 L1REQM: LPM L1 state request interrupt mask
0: LPM L1 state request (L1REQ) interrupt disabled.
1: L1REQ interrupt enabled, an interrupt request is generated when the corresponding bit in
the USB_ISTR register is set.
Bit 6 Reserved, must be kept at reset value.
Bit 5 L1RES: L1 remote wake-up / resume driver
– Device mode
Software sets this bit to send a LPM L1 50 μs remote wake-up signaling to the host. After the
signaling ends, this bit is cleared by hardware.
0: No effect
1: Send 50 μs remote-wake-up signaling to host