RM0456 Rev 6

RM0456

USB on-the-go full-speed (OTG_FS)

Bit 26 CNAK: Clear NAK
A write to this bit clears the NAK bit for the endpoint.
Bits 25:22 Reserved, must be kept at reset value.
Bit 21 STALL: STALL handshake
Applies to non-control, non-isochronous OUT endpoints only (access type is rw).
The application sets this bit to stall all tokens from the USB host to this endpoint. If a NAK
bit, Global IN NAK, or Global OUT NAK is set along with this bit, the STALL bit takes
priority. Only the application can clear this bit, never the core.
Applies to control endpoints only (access type is rs).
The application can only set this bit, and the core clears it, when a SETUP token is received
for this endpoint. If a NAK bit, Global IN NAK, or Global OUT NAK is set along with this bit,
the STALL bit takes priority. Irrespective of this bit’s setting, the core always responds to
SETUP data packets with an ACK handshake.
Bit 20 SNPM: Snoop mode
This bit configures the endpoint to Snoop mode. In Snoop mode, the core does not check
the correctness of OUT packets before transferring them to application memory.
Bits 19:18 EPTYP[1:0]: Endpoint type
This is the transfer type supported by this logical endpoint.
00: Control
01: Isochronous
10: Bulk
11: Interrupt
Bit 17 NAKSTS: NAK status
Indicates the following:
0: The core is transmitting non-NAK handshakes based on the FIFO status.
1: The core is transmitting NAK handshakes on this endpoint.
When either the application or the core sets this bit:
The core stops receiving any data on an OUT endpoint, even if there is space in the Rx
FIFO to accommodate the incoming packet.
Irrespective of this bit’s setting, the core always responds to SETUP data packets with an
ACK handshake.
Bit 16 EONUM: Even/odd frame
Applies to isochronous IN and OUT endpoints only.
Indicates the frame number in which the core transmits/receives isochronous data for this
endpoint. The application must program the even/odd frame number in which it intends to
transmit/receive isochronous data for this endpoint using the SEVNFRM and SODDFRM
fields in this register.
0: Even frame
1: Odd frame
DPID: Endpoint data PID
Applies to interrupt/bulk OUT endpoints only.
Contains the PID of the packet to be received or transmitted on this endpoint. The
application must program the PID of the first packet to be received or transmitted on this
endpoint, after the endpoint is activated. The application uses the SD0PID register field to
program either DATA0 or DATA1 PID.
0: DATA0
1: DATA1

RM0456 Rev 6