RM0456 Rev 6

RM0456

Real-time clock (RTC)
When the binary mode is used, the subsecond field can be programmed in the alarm binary
register RTC_ALRABINR.
The alarm interrupt is enabled through the ALRAIE bit in the RTC_CR register.
In case the Alarm is used to generate a trigger event for another peripheral, the ALRAF can
be automatically cleared by hardware by configuring the ALRAFCLR bit at 1 in the RTC_CR
register. In this configuration there is no need for software intervention if the only purpose is
clearing the ALRAF flag.

Caution:

If the seconds field is selected (MSK1 bit reset in RTC_ALRMAR), the synchronous
prescaler division factor set in the RTC_PRER register must be at least 3 to ensure correct
behavior.
Alarm A and alarm B (if enabled by bits OSEL[1:0] in RTC_CR register) can be routed to the
TAMPALRM output. TAMPALRM output polarity can be configured through bit POL the
RTC_CR register.

63.3.10

Periodic auto-wake-up
The periodic wake-up flag is generated by a 16-bit programmable auto-reload downcounter. The wake-up timer range can be extended to 17 bits.
The wake-up function is enabled through the WUTE bit in the RTC_CR register.
The wake-up timer clock input ck_wut can be:
•

RTC clock (RTCCLK) divided by 2, 4, 8, or 16.
When RTCCLK is LSE (32.768 kHz), this permits the wake-up interrupt period to be
configured from 122 µs to 32 s, with a resolution down to 61 µs.

•

ck_spre (usually 1 Hz internal clock) in BCD mode, or the clock used to update the
calendar as defined by BCDU in binary or mixed (BCD-binary) modes.
When ck_spre frequency is 1 Hz, a wake-up time from 1 s to around 36 hours can be
achieved with one-second resolution. This large programmable time range is divided in
2 parts:
–

from 1 s to 18 hours when WUCKSEL [2:1] = 10

–

and from around 18 h to 36 h when WUCKSEL[2:1] = 11. In this last case 216 is
added to the 16-bit counter current value. When the initialization sequence is
complete (see Programming the wake-up timer on page 2600), the timer starts
counting down. When the wake-up function is enabled, the down-counting
remains active in low-power modes. In addition, when it reaches 0, the WUTF flag
is set in the RTC_SR register, and the wake-up counter is automatically reloaded
with its reload value (RTC_WUTR register value).

Depending on WUTOCLR in the RTC_WUTR register, the WUTF flag must either be
cleared by software (WUTOCLR = 0x0000), or the WUTF is automatically cleared by
hardware when the auto-reload down counter reaches WUTOCLR value
(0x0000 < WUTOCLR ≤ WUT).
The wake-up flag is output on an internal signal rtc_wut that can be used by other
peripherals (refer to section Section 63.3.1: RTC block diagram).
When the periodic wake-up interrupt is enabled by setting the WUTIE bit in the RTC_CR
register, it can exit the device from low-power modes.

RM0456 Rev 6