2952

Serial peripheral interface (SPI)

RM0456

In transmission, the CRC computation is frozen during the CRC transfer and the TXCRC is
transmitted, in a frame of length equal to the CRCSIZE field value.
In reception, the RXCRC is also frozen when the desired number of data is transferred.
Information to be compared with the RXCRC register content is then received in a frame of
length equal to the CRCSIZE value.
Once the CRC frame is complete, an automatic check is performed comparing the received
CRC value and the value calculated in the SPI_RXCRC register. The software has to check
the CRCE flag of the SPI_SR register to determine if the data transfers were corrupted or
not. Software clears the CRCE flag by writing 1 to the CRCEC.
The user takes no care about any flushing redundant CRC information, it is done
automatically.

Resetting the SPI_TXCRC and SPI_RXCRC values
The SPI_TXCRC and SPI_RXCRC values are initialized automatically when new data is
sampled after a CRC phase. This allows the use of DMA circular mode to transfer data
without any interruption (several data blocks covered by intermediate CRC checking
phases). Initialization patterns for receiver and transmitter can be configured either to zero
or to all ones in dependency on setting bits TCRCINI and RCRCINI of the SPI_CR1 register.
The CRC values are reset when the SPI is disabled.

68.6

SPI in low-power modes
The SPI supports autonomous operation down to Stop mode, refer to Section 68.4.15:
Autonomous mode.
Table 701. Effect of low-power modes on the SPI
Mode

Description

Sleep

No effect. SPI interrupts cause the device to exit Sleep mode.

Stop(1)

The SPI registers content is kept.
If the autonomous mode is enabled at RCC configuration, and SPI is clocked by an
internal oscillator available in Stop mode, transfers are functional. The DMA
requests are functional, and the interrupts in this mode cause the device to exit
Stop mode.

Standby

The SPI instance is not functional in this mode. It is powered down, and must be
reinitialized after exiting Standby mode.

1. Refer to Section 68.3: SPI implementation for information about wake-up from Stop mode support per
instance as well as Standby mode availability. If an instance is not functional in a Stop mode, it must be
disabled before entering this Stop mode.

68.7

SPI interrupts
Table 702 gives an overview of the SPI events capable of generating interrupts if enabled.
Some of them feature wake-up from low-power mode capability, additionally. Most of them
can be enabled and disabled independently while using specific interrupt enable control bits.
The flags associated with the events are cleared by specific methods. Refer to the
description of SPI registers for more details about the event flags. When SPI is disabled, all