3020

Serial audio interface (SAI)

69.4.13

RM0456

Specific features
The SAI interface embeds specific features that can be useful depending on the audio
protocol selected. These functions are accessible through specific bits of the SAI_xCR2
register.

Mute mode
The mute mode can be used when the audio subblock is a transmitter or a receiver.
Audio subblock in transmission mode
In transmitter mode, the mute mode can be selected at any time. The mute mode is active
for entire audio frames. The MUTE bit in the SAI_xCR2 register enables the mute mode
when it is configured during an ongoing frame.
The mute mode bit is strobed only at the end of the frame. If it is set at this time, the mute
mode is active at the beginning of the new audio frame and for a complete frame, until the
next end of frame. The bit is then strobed to determine if the next frame is still a mute frame.
If the number of slots set through the NBSLOT[3:0] bits in the SAI_xSLOTR register is lower
than or equal to 2, it is possible to specify if the value sent in mute mode is 0 or if it is the last
value of each slot. The selection is done via the MUTEVAL bit in the SAI_xCR2 register.
If the number of slots set in the NBSLOT[3:0] bits in the SAI_xSLOTR register is greater
than 2, the MUTEVAL bit in the SAI_xCR2 register is meaningless as 0 values are sent on
each bit on each slot.
The FIFO pointers are still incremented in mute mode. This means that data present in the
FIFO and for which the mute mode is requested are discarded.
Audio subblock in reception mode
In reception mode, it is possible to detect a mute mode sent from the external transmitter
when all the declared and valid slots of the audio frame receive 0 for a given consecutive
number of audio frames (MUTECNT[5:0] bits in the SAI_xCR2 register).
When the number of MUTE frames is detected, the MUTEDET flag in the SAI_xSR register
is set and an interrupt can be generated if the MUTEDETIE bit is set in SAI_xCR2.
The mute frame counter is cleared when the audio subblock is disabled or when a valid slot
receives at least one data in an audio frame. The interrupt is generated just once, when the
counter reaches the value specified in the MUTECNT[5:0] bits. The interrupt event is then
reinitialized when the counter is cleared.
Note:

The mute mode is not available for SPDIF audio blocks.

Mono/stereo mode
In transmitter mode, the mono mode can be addressed without any data preprocessing in
memory, assuming the number of slots is equal to 2 (NBSLOT[3:0] = 0001 in SAI_xSLOTR).
In this case, the access time to and from the FIFO is reduced by 2 since the data for slot 0 is
duplicated into data slot 1.
To enable the mono mode: