RM0456 Rev 6

RM0456

FD controller area network (FDCAN)
Where DBRP[4:0], DTSEG1[4:0], and DTSEG2[3:0] belong to the FDCAN_DBTP
register.
The (re)synchronization jump width (SJW) defines an upper bound for the amount of
lengthening or shortening of the bit segments. It is programmable between one and four
time quanta.
A valid edge is defined as the first transition in a bit time from dominant to recessive bus
level, provided the controller itself does not send a recessive bit.
If a valid edge is detected in BS1 instead of SYNC_SEG, BS1 is extended by up to SJW, so
that the sample point is delayed.
Conversely, if a valid edge is detected in BS2 instead of SYNC_SEG, BS2 is shortened by
up to SJW, so that the transmit point is moved earlier.
As a safeguard against programming errors, the configuration of the bit timing register is
only possible while the device is in Standby mode. The FDCAN_DBTP and FDCAN_NBTP
registers (dedicated, respectively, to data and nominal bit timing) are only accessible when
the CCE and INIT of the FDCA_CCCR register are set.
The FDCAN requires that the CAN time quanta clock is always below or equal to the APB
clock (fdcan_tq_ck < fdcan_pclk).

Note:

For a detailed description of the CAN bit timing and resynchronization mechanism, refer to
the ISO 11898-1 standard.

70.3.4

Operating modes
Configuration
Access to peripheral version, hardware, and input clock divider configuration. When the
clock divider is set to 0, the primary input clock is used as it is.

Software initialization
Software initialization is started by setting the INIT bit of the FDCAN_CCCR register, by
software, by a hardware reset, or by entering bus-off state. While the INIT bit is set,
message transfers from and to the CAN bus are stopped, and the status of the CAN bus
output FDCAN_TX is recessive (high). The EML (error management logic) counters are
unchanged. Setting the INIT bit does not change any configuration register. Clearing INIT bit
of FDCAN_CCCR finishes the software initialization. Afterwards the bit stream processor
(BSP) synchronizes itself to the data transfer on the CAN bus by waiting for the occurrence
of a sequence of 11 consecutive recessive bits (bus-idle) before it can take part in bus
activities and start the message transfer.
Access to the FDCAN configuration registers is only enabled when the INIT bit and the CCE
bit of the FDCAN_CCCR register are both set.
The CCE bit of the FDCAN_CCCR register can only be set/cleared while the INIT bit of
FDCAN_CCCR is set. The CCE bit is automatically cleared when the INIT bit is cleared.

RM0456 Rev 6