3291

USB on-the-go full-speed (OTG_FS)

RM0456

PTXQSAV bits in the OTG_HNPTXSTS register or NPTQXSAV bits in the
OTG_HNPTXSTS register.

72.8

OTG_FS SOF trigger
Figure 897. SOF connectivity (SOF trigger output to TIM and ITR1 connection)

SOF pulse output, to
external audio control
VBUS
ITR1

SOF pulse

DD+

TIM

SOFgen

ID

USB micro-AB connector

STM32

VSS

MSv36914V1

The OTG_FS core provides means to monitor, track and configure SOF framing in the host
and peripheral, as well as an SOF pulse output connectivity feature.
Such utilities are especially useful for adaptive audio clock generation techniques, where
the audio peripheral needs to synchronize to the isochronous stream provided by the PC, or
the host needs to trim its framing rate according to the requirements of the audio peripheral.

72.8.1

Host SOFs
In host mode the number of PHY clocks occurring between the generation of two
consecutive SOF (FS) or Keep-alive (LS) tokens is programmable in the host frame interval
register (HFIR), thus providing application control over the SOF framing period. An interrupt
is generated at any start of frame (SOF bit in OTG_GINTSTS). The current frame number
and the time remaining until the next SOF are tracked in the host frame number register
(HFNUM).
A SOF pulse signal, is generated at any SOF starting token and with a width of 20 HCLK
cycles. The SOF pulse is also internally connected to the input trigger of the timer, so that
the input capture feature, the output compare feature and the timer can be triggered by the
SOF pulse.

72.8.2

Peripheral SOFs
In device mode, the start of frame interrupt is generated each time an SOF token is received
on the USB (SOF bit in OTG_GINTSTS). The corresponding frame number can be read
from the device status register (FNSOF bit in OTG_DSTS). A SOF pulse signal with a width
of 20 HCLK cycles is also generated.The SOF pulse signal is also internally connected to
the TIM input trigger, so that the input capture feature, the output compare feature and the
timer can be triggered by the SOF pulse.