RM0456 Rev 6

RM0456

Advanced-control timers (TIM1/TIM8)

Bit 6 TG: Trigger generation
This bit is set by software in order to generate an event, it is automatically cleared by
hardware.
0: No action
1: The TIF flag is set in TIMx_SR register. Related interrupt or DMA transfer can occur if
enabled.
Bit 5 COMG: Capture/compare control update generation
This bit can be set by software, it is automatically cleared by hardware
0: No action
1: CCxE, CCxNE and OCxM bits update (providing CCPC bit is set)
Note: This bit acts only on channels having a complementary output.
Bit 4 CC4G: Capture/compare 4 generation
Refer to CC1G description
Bit 3 CC3G: Capture/compare 3 generation
Refer to CC1G description
Bit 2 CC2G: Capture/compare 2 generation
Refer to CC1G description
Bit 1 CC1G: Capture/compare 1 generation
This bit is set by software in order to generate an event, it is automatically cleared by
hardware.
0: No action
1: A capture/compare event is generated on channel 1:
If channel CC1 is configured as output:
CC1IF flag is set, Corresponding interrupt or DMA request is sent if enabled.
If channel CC1 is configured as input:
The current value of the counter is captured in TIMx_CCR1 register. The CC1IF flag is set,
the corresponding interrupt or DMA request is sent if enabled. The CC1OF flag is set if the
CC1IF flag was already high.
Bit 0 UG: Update generation
This bit can be set by software, it is automatically cleared by hardware.
0: No action
1: Reinitialize the counter and generates an update of the registers. Note that the prescaler
counter is cleared too (anyway the prescaler ratio is not affected). The counter is cleared if
the center-aligned mode is selected or if DIR = 0 (upcounting), else it takes the autoreload
value (TIMx_ARR) if DIR = 1 (downcounting).

54.6.7

TIMx capture/compare mode register 1 (TIMx_CCMR1)
(x = 1, 8)
Address offset: 0x018
Reset value: 0x0000 0000
The same register can be used for input capture mode (this section) or for output compare
mode (next section). The direction of a channel is defined by configuring the corresponding
CCxS bits. All the other bits of this register have a different function for input capture and for
output compare modes. It is possible to combine both modes independently (for example
channel 1 in input capture mode and channel 2 in output compare mode).

RM0456 Rev 6