RM0456 Rev 6

RM0456

Octo-SPI interface (OCTOSPI)
busy, and no further configuration is allowed. Then, the only way to get BUSY low is to clear
the ENABLE bit or to abort by setting the ABORT bit.

OCTOSPI delayed data sampling when no DQS is used
By default, when no DQS is used, the OCTOSPI samples the data driven by the external
device one half of a CLK cycle after the external device drives the signal.
In case of any external signal delays, it may be useful to sample the data later. Using
SSHIFT in OCTOSPI_TCR, the sampling of the data can be shifted by half of a CLK cycle.
The firmware must clear SSHIFT when the data phase is configured in DTR mode
(DDTR = 1).

OCTOSPI delayed data sampling when DQS is used
When external DQS is used as a sampling clock, it can be shifted in time to compensate the
data propagation delay. This shift is performed by an external delay block located outside
the OCTOSPI. The control of this feature depends on the device implementation (see the
product reference manual for more details).
In configurations where delay does not need to be compensated, the external delay block
can be bypassed by setting DLYBYP in OCTOSPI_DCR1.

Sending the instruction only once (SIOO)
A flash memory can provide a mode where an instruction must be sent only with the first
command sequence, while subsequent commands start directly with the address. The user
can take advantage of this type of features using SIOO in OCTOSPI_CCR.
SIOO is valid for memory-mapped mode only. If this bit is set, the instruction is sent only for
the first command following a write to OCTOSPI_CCR.
Subsequent command sequences skip the instruction phase, until there is a write to
OCTOSPI_CCR. SIOO has no effect when IMODE[1:0] = 00 (no instruction).
The SIOO mode is not supported when any of the communication regulations, NCS
boundary, or refresh features are used.

28.4.16

OCTOSPI HyperBus protocol configuration
Indirect mode configuration (HyperBus)
When FMODE[1:0] = 00, the indirect-write mode is selected and data can be sent to the
external device. When FMODE[1:0] = 01, the indirect-read mode is selected where data can
be read from the external device. ADMODE must be configured with a value different from
000 (for instance ADMODE = 100).
When the OCTOSPI is used in indirect mode, the frames are constructed in the following
way:
1.

Specify a number of data bytes to read or write in OCTOSPI_DLR.

2.

Specify the targeted address in OCTOSPI_AR.

3.

Enable the DMA channel if needed.

4.

Read/write the data from/to the FIFO through OCTOSPI_DR (if no DMA usage).

In indirect-read mode, the command sequence starts as soon as the address is updated
with a write to OCTOSPI_AR.

RM0456 Rev 6