1886

JPEG codec (JPEG)

RM0456

The consequence of not flushing the FIFO at the end of the decoding process is that any
remaining data is taken into the next JPEG decoding.
DMA requests are no more generated once the EOCF flag of the JPEG_SR register is set.

Interrupt or DMA trigger generation for input FIFO
Input FIFO can be managed using interrupts or DMA triggers through two flags according to
the FIFO state:
•

Input FIFO not full flag: a 32-bit value can be written in.

•

Input FIFO threshold flag: 8 words (32 bytes) can be written in.

The interrupt or DMA trigger generation is independent of the START bit of the
JPEG_CONFR0 register. The input FIFO flags are generated regardless of the state of the
JPEG codec kernel.
Writes are ignored if the input FIFO is full.
At the end of the decoding process, extra bytes may remain in the input FIFO and/or an
interrupt request / DMA trigger may be pending. The FIFO can be flushed by setting the IFF
bit (Input FIFO Flush) of the JPEG_CR register.
Prior to flushing the FIFO:
•

The interrupts for the input FIFO must be disabled to prevent an unwanted interrupt
request upon flushing the FIFO.

•

The DMA channel must be stopped to prevent an unwanted DMA trigger.

The consequence of not flushing the FIFO at the end of the decoding process is that any
remaining data is taken into the next JPEG decoding.

Header parsing
The header parsing can be activated by setting the HDR bit of the JPEG_CONFR1 register.
The JPEG header parser supports all markers relevant to the JPEG baseline algorithm
indicated in Annex B of the ISO/IEC 10918-1.
When parsing a supported marker, the JPEG header parser extracts the required
parameters and stores them in shadow registers. At the end of the parsing the JPEG codec
registers are updated.
If a DQT marker segment is located, quantization data associated with it is written into the
quantization table memory.
If a DHT marker segment is located, the Huffman table data associated with it is converted
into three different table formats (HuffMin, HuffBase, and HuffSymb) and stored in their
respective memories.
Once the parsing operation is completed, the HPDF (header parsing done flag) bit of the
JPEG_SR register is set. An interrupt is generated if the EHPIE (end of header parsing
interrupt enable) bit of the JPEG_CR register is set.

JPEG decoding
Once the JPEG header is parsed or the JPEG codec registers and memories are properly
programmed, the incoming data stream is decoded and the resulting MCUs are sent to the
output FIFO.