The sensor has a startup time after waking from power-down mode and before it can output
at the correct level. The ADC also has a startup time after power-on. As a result, to minimize
the delay, the ADEN and VSENSESEL bits must be set simultaneously.

RM0456 Rev 6

RM0456

33.4.34

Analog-to-digital converter (ADC12)

VBAT supply monitoring
The VBATEN bit in the ADC12_CCR register is used to switch to the battery voltage. As the
VBAT voltage can be higher than VDDA, the VBAT pin is internally connected to a bridge
divider by 4 to ensure the correct operation of the ADC. This bridge is automatically enabled
when VBATEN is set, to connect VBAT/4 to the corresponding ADC input channels (see
Section 33.4.4: ADC connectivity for more details). As a consequence, the converted digital
value is one fourth of the VBAT voltage. To prevent any unwanted consumption on the
battery, it is recommended to enable the bridge divider only when needed, for ADC
conversion.
Refer to the electrical characteristics of the device datasheet for the sampling time value to
be applied when converting the VBAT/4 voltage.
Figure 276 shows the block diagram of the VBAT sensing feature.
Figure 276. VBAT channel block diagram

VBAT

ADCx

VBAT/4

Address/data bus

VBATEN control bit

ADC input

MSv41032V5

Note:

The VBATEN bit of the ADC12_CCR register must be set to enable the conversion of the
ADC internal channels to which VBAT is connected (see Section 33.4.4: ADC connectivity
for more details).

33.4.35

Monitoring the internal voltage reference
The internal voltage reference can be monitored to have a reference point for evaluating the
ADC VREF+ voltage level.
Refer to Section 33.4.4: ADC connectivity for details on the ADC input channels to which the
internal voltage reference is internally connected.
The sampling time for this channel must be greater than the stabilization time specified in
the device datasheet.
Figure 276 shows the block diagram of the VREFINT sensing feature.

RM0456 Rev 6