RM0456 Rev 6

RM0456

DSI Host (DSI)
when the last pixel of the image is received, falls, or command size (CMDSIZE) limit is
reached.

Synchronization with the LTDC
The DSI Wrapper performs the synchronization of the transfer process by:
•

controlling the start/halt of the LTDC

•

making the data flow control between LTDC and DSI Host.

The transfer to refresh the display frame buffer can be triggered
•

manually, setting the LTDC enable (LTDCEN) bit of the DSI Wrapper control register
(DSI_WCR)

•

automatically when a tearing effect (TEIF) event occurs, and automatic refresh (AR) is
enabled.

The selection between manual and automatic mode is done through the automatic refresh
(AR) bit of the DSI Wrapper configuration register (DSI_WCFGR).
Once the transfer of one frame is done whatever in manual or automatic refresh mode, the
DSI Wrapper halts the TFT display controller (LTDC), resetting the LTDC enable (LTDCEN)
bit of the DSI Wrapper control register (DSI_WCR), and setting the end of refresh interrupt
flag (ERIF) flag of the DSI Wrapper status register (DSI_WSR). If the end of refresh interrupt
enable (ERIE) bit of the DSI Wrapper configuration register (DSI_WCFGR) is set, an
interrupt is generated.
The end of refresh interrupt flag (ERIF) flag of the DSI Wrapper status register (DSI_WSR)
can be reset setting the clear end of refresh interrupt flag (CERIF) bit of the DSI Wrapper
clear interrupt flag register (DSI_WCIFR).
The halting of the TFT display controller (LTDC) by the DSI Wrapper is done synchronously
on a rising edge or a falling edge of VSync according to the VSync polarity (VSPOL) bit of
the DSI Wrapper configuration register (DSI_WCFGR). It is recommended to keep the
default polarity to guarantee a correct behavior.

Support of tearing effect
The DSI specification supports tearing effect function in command mode displays. It enables
the Host processor to receive timing accurate information about where the display
peripheral is in the process of reading the content of its frame buffer.
The tearing effect can be managed through:
•

a separate pin, which is not covered in the DSI specification

•

the DSI tearing effect functionality: a set_tear_on DCS command must be issued
through the APB interface using the generic interface registers.

Tearing effect through a GPIO
When the tearing effect source (TESRC) bit of the DSI Wrapper configuration register
(DSI_WCFGR) is set, the tearing effect is signaled through a GPIO.
The polarity of the input signal can be configured by the tearing effect polarity (TEPOL) bit of
the DSI Wrapper configuration register (DSI_WCFGR).
When the programmed edge is detected, the tearing effect interrupt flag (TEIF) bit of the
DSI Wrapper interrupt and status register (DSI_WISR) is set.

RM0456 Rev 6