RM0456 Rev 6

RM0456

Power control (PWR)

Backup domain access
After a system reset, the backup domain (RCC backup domain control register RCC_BDCR,
RTC registers, TAMP registers, backup registers and backup SRAM) is protected against
possible unwanted write accesses.
To enable access to the backup domain, proceed as follows:
1.

Enable the power interface clock by setting the PWREN bits in RCC_AHB3ENR.

2.

Set the DBP bit in PWR_DBPR to enable access to the backup domain.

VBAT battery charging
When VDD is present, It is possible to charge the external battery on VBAT through
an internal resistance.
The VBAT charging is done either through a 5 kΩ resistor or through a 1.5 kΩ resistor
depending on VBRS value in PWR_BDCR2.
The battery charging is enabled by setting VBE in PWR_BDCR2. It is automatically disabled
in VBAT mode.

10.5

PWR system supply voltage regulation

10.5.1

SMPS and LDO embedded regulators
The devices embed two internal regulators, that can be selected when the application runs,
depending on the application requirements:
•

a SMPS step-down converter

•

a linear voltage regulator (LDO)

The SMPS allows the power consumption to be reduced but some applications can be
perturbed by the noise generated by the SMPS, requiring the application to switch to LDO.
The LDO and the SMPS regulators have two modes: main regulator mode (used when
performance is needed), and low-power regulator mode. LDO or SMPS can be used in all
voltage scaling ranges, and in all Stop modes.

10.5.2

LDO and SMPS versus reset, voltage scaling, and low-power modes
After reset, the regulator is the LDO, in range 4. Switching to SMPS provides lower
consumption in particular at high VDD voltage. It is possible to switch from LDO to SMPS, or
from SMPS to LDO in any range, by configuring the REGSEL bit.
When exiting Stop or Standby mode, the regulator is the same than when entering
low-power modes. The voltage range is the range 4.

Warning:

On STM32U59x/5Ax/5Fx/5Gx devices only, when using the
device in VOS range 1 at extended temperature ranges
(from 85 to 125 °C), the system frequency must be reduced
below 110 MHz before switching from LDO to SMPS, or vice
versa. It is required to proceed as follow:
1. Reduce the system frequency below 110 MHz.
2. Configure REGSEL bit to select the required regulator.
RM0456 Rev 6