RM0456 Rev 6

RM0456

Serial peripheral interface (SPI)
When the SPI is used at a simplex mode, the user must enable the adequate DMA channel
only while keeping the complementary unused channel disabled.
If the SPI is programmed in transmit-only mode, RXP and OVR are never set.
If the SPI is programmed in full-duplex mode, RXP and OVR are eventually set, because
received data are not read.
In transmission mode, when the DMA or the user has written all the data to be transmitted
(the TXTF flag is set in the SPI_SR register), the EOT (or TXC at case TSIZE = 0) flag can
be monitored to ensure that the SPI communication is complete. This is required to avoid
corrupting the last transmission before disabling the SPI or before disabling the spi_pclk in
master mode. The software must first wait until EOT = 1 and/or TXC = 1.
When starting communication using DMA, to prevent DMA channel management raising
error events, these steps must be followed in order:
1.

Enable the DMA Rx buffer in the RXDMAEN bit of the SPI_CFG1 register, if DMA Rx is
used.

2.

Enable DMA requests for Tx and Rx in DMA registers, if the DMA is used.

3.

Enable the DMA Tx buffer in the TXDMAEN bit of the SPI_CFG1 register, if DMA Tx is
used.

4.

Enable the SPI by setting the SPE bit.

To close communication, it is mandatory to follow these steps in order:
1.

Disable DMA requests for Tx and Rx in the DMA registers, if the DMA issued.

2.

Disable the SPI by following the SPI disable procedure.

3.

Disable DMA Tx and Rx buffers by clearing the TXDMAEN and RXDMAEN bits of the
SPI_CFG1 register, if DMA Tx and/or DMA Rx are used.

Data packing with DMA
If the transfers are managed by DMA (TXDMAEN and RXDMAEN set in the SPI_CFG1
register) the packing mode is enabled/disabled automatically depending on the PSIZE value
configured for SPI TX and the SPI RX DMA channel.
The packing mode is enabled if the DMA channel PSIZE value is a multiple of the data size.
Then the DMA automatically manages the sequences of write and read operations to/from
the SPI data registers, based on FIFO occupancy flags, and depending on the FIFO
threshold and data size configurations.
The DMA completes the transfer automatically according to the TSIZE field setting,
whatever the data packing mode used, and even if the number of data to transfer is not a
multiple of the DMA data size (16 bits or 32 bits) while the frame size is smaller.
Alternatively, the last data frames can be written by software, in the single/unpacked mode.
Configuring any DMA data access to less than the configured data size is forbidden. One
complete data frame must be always accessed at minimum.

68.4.15

Autonomous mode
The SPI is capable of handling and initializing transfers autonomously. It requires no specific
system execution interaction until the ongoing transfer ends.
Such autonomous transfers can be handled not only in Run or Sleep mode but even in Stop
mode when the SPI logic is able to provide temporary clock requests addressed to the reset

RM0456 Rev 6