•

The access to PKA RAM falls outside the expected range. In this case the address
error flag (ADDRERRF) is set in the PKA_SR register.

•

An AHB access to the PKA RAM occurred while the PKA core was using it. In this case
the RAM error flag (RAMERRF) is set in the PKA_SR register, reads to PKA RAM
return 0, while writes are ignored.

•

The selected operating mode using MODE bitfield is not listed in PKA operating modes
(see bitfield description). In this case the operation error flag (OPERRF) is set in the
PKA_SR register, and write to MODE bitfield is ignored.

RM0456 Rev 6

RM0456

Public key accelerator (PKA)
For each error flag above PKA generates an interrupt if the application sets the
corresponding bit in PKA_CR register (see Section 53.6 for details).
ADDRERRF, OPERRF and RAMERRF errors are cleared by setting the corresponding bit in
PKA_CLRFR.
OPERRF error must be cleared using OPERRFC bit in PKA_CLRFR before a new
operation is written in PKA_CR register.

Note:

The PKA can be re-initialized at any moment by resetting the EN bit in the PKA_CR register.

53.4

PKA operating modes

53.4.1

Introduction
The various operations supported by PKA are described in the following subsections,
defining the format of the input data and of the results, both stored in the PKA RAM.

Warning:

The validity of all input parameters to the PKA must be
checked before starting any operation, as PKA assumes that
all of them are valid and consistent with each other. Input
parameters must not exceed the operand size specified in the
operation tables.

The following information applies to all PKA operations.
•

PKA core processes 64-bit words in its RAM. Hence hereafter all word size is 64-bit

•

When an element is written as input in the PKA RAM, an additional word with all bits
equal to zero has to be added after the most significant input word. This rule does not
apply if the operand has a fixed size of 1.

•

All reported RAM storage addresses refer to the least significant word of the data, and
to obtain the actual address to use application must add to the indicated offset the base
address of the PKA.

•

Supported operand “Size” are:

•

–

ROS (RSA operand size): data size is (rsa_size / 64 + 1) words, with rsa_size
equal to the chosen modulus length in bits. For example, when computing RSA
with an operand size of 1024 bits, ROS is equal to 17 words, or 1088 bits.

–

EOS (ECC operand size): data size is (ecc_size / 64 + 1) words, with ecc_size
equal to the chosen prime modulus length in bits. For example, when computing
ECC with an operand size of 192 bits, EOS is equal to 4 words, or 256 bits.

–

ROS and EOS values include the required additional all 0 word.

Unless indicated otherwise, all operands in the tables are integers.

Note:

Fractional results for above formulas must be rounded up to the nearest integer since PKA
core processes 64-bit words.

Note:

The maximum ROS is 66 words (4160-bit max exponent size), while the maximum EOS is
11 words (640-bit max operand size).
As a first example (and to better understand the endianess in PKA memory), to prepare the
operation ECC Fp scalar multiplication, when the application writes the x coordinate of point
RM0456 Rev 6