2952

Serial peripheral interface (SPI)

RM0456

input of the master SS internal logic applicable at a multimaster topology
exclusively.

Note:

a)

When SSOM = 0 and SP = 000, the SS signal is driven to the active level as soon
as the master transfer starts (CSTART = 1) and it is kept active until its EOT flag is
set or the transmission is suspended.

b)

When SP = 001, a pulse is generated as defined by the TI mode.

c)

When SSOM = 1, SP = 000 and MIDI > 1 the SS is pulsed inactive between data
frames, and kept inactive for a number of SPI clock periods defined by the MIDI
value decremented by one (from 1 to 14).

d)

SS input is forced to nonactive state internally at master to prevent any mode fault.

–

SS output disable (SSM = 0, SSOE = 0):

a)

If the microcontroller is acting as the master on the bus, this configuration allows
multimaster capability. If the SS pin is pulled into an active level in this mode, the
SPI enters master mode fault state and the SPI device is automatically
reconfigured in slave mode (MASTER = 0).

b)

In slave mode, the SS pin works as a standard ‘chip select’ input and the slave is
selected while the SS line is at its active level.

The purpose of automatic switching into slave mode when a mode fault occurs is to avoid
the possible conflicts on data and clock lines. As the SPE is automatically reset in this
condition, both Rx and Tx FIFOs are flushed and current data is lost.
When the SPI slave is enabled in the hardware SS management mode, all the transfers are
ignored even in case of the SS is found at active level. They are ignored until the slave
detects a start of the SS signal (transition from nonactive to active level) just synchronizing
the slave with the master. This is because the hardware management mode cannot be used
when the external SS pin is fixed. There is no such protection in the SS software
management. Then the SSI bit must be changed when there is no traffic on the bus and the
SCK signal is in idle state level between transfers exclusively in this case.