2952

Serial peripheral interface (SPI)

RM0456

flags RXP, TXP, and DXP of the SPI_SR register according to the SPI mode (duplex or
simplex):
•

If RXP is set, at least one complete data packet can be read from the RxFIFO.

•

If TXP is set, at least one complete data packet can be written to the TxFIFO.

•

If DXP is set, at least one complete data packet can be read from the RxFIFO and
written to the TxFIFO at full-duplex mode.

These flags can be polled by software, or they can trigger an interrupt and/or a DMA request
(if enabled through the RXPIE, TXPIE, and DXPIE bits of the SPI_EIR register or the
RXDMAEN and TXDMAEN bits of the SPI_CFG1 register).
Once an occupancy flag is set, the software or the DMA must read and/or write a complete
data packet before checking the flag again to verify if the next packet can be handled. This
cycle can be repeated until the corresponding flag is read at zero.
Both RxFIFO and TxFIFO contents are flushed and cannot be accessed when the SPI is
disabled (SPE cleared in the SPI_CR1 register).

Data packing versus data register access control
The content of the RxFIFO and TxFIFO can be accessed by reading/writing from/to the SPI
data registers SPI_RXDR and SPI_TXDR, respectively. A read access from the SPI_RXDR
register returns the oldest values stored in the RxFIFO that have not been read yet. A write
access to the SPI_TXDR register stores the data written at the end of the send queue in the
TxFIFO.
These data registers can be accessed by 8-, 16-, or 32-bit read and write CPU instructions,
forced by the register address casting applied by the software. Data packing is performed
automatically by hardware if the data access applied by the software is a multiple of the data
size. It allows handling more than one data in parallel in a single data register access. Then
the SPI operates using the lowest significant byte or half-word first. FIFO data accesses of
less than the configured data size are forbidden. To avoid spurious data being read or
written data being lost, a complete data packet (configured through the FIFO threshold)
must be serviced when the corresponding FIFO occupancy flag is set. If the data pattern is
not byte-, half-word, or word-aligned, only the valid data bits are stored right-aligned to the
FIFO and transferred on the bus. Unused bits are discarded on the transmitter side and
padded with zeros on the receiver side.
For example, if the data frame size fits into one byte, the data packing is used automatically
when a 16-bit or 32-bit read/write access is performed by software from/to the
SPI_RXDR/SPI_TXDR register. In this case, two respectively four data are handled by a
single 16-bit respectively 32-bit access. Additionally, if such data frames are grouped into
packets of four via the FIFO threshold setting, the packet to be serviced is signalized by
raising the corresponding FIFO occupancy flag (TXP, RXP, or DXP). If the instance FIFO
threshold is sufficient, a packet containing eight 8-bit data frames can be handled by two
consecutive 32-bit accesses upon the same single threshold event. The most efficient data
handling is achieved when the data packet size (defined by DSIZE and FTHLV bitfields) is
aligned with the read/write access from/to the data registers.

Concurrent read and write services
In full-duplex mode, both TxFIFO and RxFIFO packet occupancies can be monitored
through a common FIFO flag (DXP). When the DXP flag is set, the application performs the
specified number of writes to SPI_TXDR to upload the content of one entire data packet for
transmission, followed by the same number of reads from SPI_RXDR to download the