1973

AES hardware accelerator (AES)

RM0456

AES_SR register then stop the DMA transfers from the OUT FIFO by clearing the
DMAOUTEN bit of the AES_CR register.
3.

Clear the CCF flag of the AES_SR register, by setting to 1 the CCF bit of the AES_ICR
register.

4.

Save the AES_SUSPxR registers (where x is from 0 to 7) in the memory.

5.

Save the AES_IVRx registers as, during the data processing, they changed from their
initial values.

6.

Disable the AES peripheral, by clearing the EN bit of the AES_CR register.

7.

Save the current AES configuration in the memory, excluding the initialization vector
registers AES_IVRx. Key registers do not need to be saved as the original key value is
known by the application.

8.

If DMA is used, save the DMA controller status (pointers for IN data transfers, number
of remaining bytes, and so on). In the payload phase, pointers for OUT data transfers
must also be saved.

To resume the processing of a message, proceed as follows:

49.4.13

1.

If DMA is used, configure the DMA controller in order to complete the rest of the FIFO
IN transfers. In the payload phase, the rest of the FIFO OUT transfers must also be
configured in the DMA controller.

2.

Disable the AES peripheral by clearing the EN bit of the AES_CR register.

3.

Write the suspend register values, previously saved in the memory, back into their
corresponding AES_SUSPxR registers (where x is from 0 to 7).

4.

Write the initialization vector register values, previously saved in the memory, back into
their corresponding AES_IVRx registers.

5.

Restore the initial setting values in the AES_CR and AES_KEYRx registers.

6.

Enable the AES peripheral by setting the EN bit of the AES_CR register.

7.

If DMA is used, enable AES DMA requests by setting to 1 the DMAINEN bit (and
DMAOUTEN bit if in payload phase) of the AES_CR register.

AES operation with shared keys
The AES peripheral can use the SAES peripheral as security co-processor. In this case,
secure application prepares the key in the robust SAES peripheral. When ready, the AES
application can load this prepared key through a dedicated hardware key bus.
Recommended sequences are described below and in SAES peripheral section
Section 50.4.10: SAES operation with shared keys.