The backup registers are also erased when the readout protection of the flash is changed
from level 1 to level 0.

RM0456 Rev 6

RM0456

Tamper and backup registers (TAMP)

Tamper detection – confirmed mode
The confirmed mode is selected for TAMPx (external tamper x) when TAMPxNOER = 0 in
the TAMP_CR2 register. The confirmed mode is selected for ITAMPx (internal tamper x)
when ITAMPxNOER = 0 in the TAMP_CR3 register. The effects of a tamper detection in
confirmed mode are described with tamp_confirmed and tamp_confirmed_ercfgx signals in
the Table 644: TAMP interconnection.
This mode is selected to erase automatically the device secrets when the tamper is
detected.

Tamper detection – potential mode
The potential mode is selected for TAMPx (external tamper x) when TAMPxNOER = 1 in the
TAMP_CR2 register. The potential tamper mode is selected for ITAMPx (internal tamper x)
when ITAMPxNOER = 1 in the TAMP_CR3 register. The effects of a tamper detection in
potential mode are described with tamp_potential and tamp_potential_ercfgx signals in the
Table 644: TAMP interconnection.
This mode is selected to avoid irreversible erasure of some device secrets when the tamper
is detected. In this mode, some device secrets are not erased when the corresponding
tamper event is detected. In addition, the read and write accesses to these device secrets
are blocked as soon as the tamper detection flag is set in potential mode, until this flag is
cleared by setting the corresponding clear flag in the TAMP_SCR register. Therefore the
software can perform some checks to discriminate false from true tampers, and decide to
launch secrets erase only in case of the potential tamper is confirmed to be a true tamper.
The device secrets are erased by software by setting the BKERASE bit in the TAMP_CR2
register.

Potential tamper to confirmed tamper timeout
Some internal tampers generate a tamper event if the independent watchdog reset occurs
when another tamper flag is set (refer to Table 644: TAMP interconnection). The IWDG
tamper must be configured with ITAMPxNOER = 0. This permits the erasure of device
secrets to be forced by hardware after a timeout, in case the previous tamper event was in
potential mode. This is equivalent to change the “potential tamper” into “confirmed tamper” if
a watchdog reset occurs before any software decision following the potential tamper event.

Device resources protection configuration
Some device resources can be configured in order to be included to the list of the device
secrets protected by tamper detection.
When ERCFGz = 0 in the TAMP_ERCFGR, the device resource associated to ERCFGz is
not protected by the TAMP peripheral:
•

It is not affected by tamper detection (whatever confirmed or potential mode)

•

It is not affected by BKERASE software command

•

It is not affected by BKBLOCK software command

When ERCFGz = 1 in the TAMP_ERCFGR, the device resource associated to ERCFGz is
protected by the TAMP peripheral:
•

It is affected by confirmed tamper detection and BKERASE software command, as
described with tamp_confirmed_ercfgz signal in Table 644: TAMP interconnection

•

It is affected by potential tamper detection and BKBLOCK software command, as
described with tamp_potential_ercfgz signal in Table 644: TAMP interconnection

RM0456 Rev 6