RM0456 Rev 6

RM0456

Flexible static memory controller (FSMC)
register. The FMC does not include the clock cycle when NADV is low in the data latency
count.

Caution:

Some NOR flash memories include the NADV Low cycle in the data latency count, so that
the exact relation between the NOR flash latency and the FMC DATLAT parameter can be
either:
•

NOR flash latency = (DATLAT + 2) CLK clock cycles

•

or NOR flash latency = (DATLAT + 3) CLK clock cycles

Some recent memories assert NWAIT during the latency phase. In such cases DATLAT can
be set to its minimum value. As a result, the FMC samples the data and waits long enough
to evaluate if the data are valid. Thus the FMC detects when the memory exits latency and
real data are processed.
Other memories do not assert NWAIT during latency. In this case the latency must be set
correctly for both the FMC and the memory, otherwise invalid data are mistaken for good
data, or valid data are lost in the initial phase of the memory access.

Single-burst transfer
When the selected bank is configured in Burst mode for synchronous accesses, if for
example an AHB single-burst transaction is requested on 16-bit memories, the FMC
performs a burst transaction of length 1 (if the AHB transfer is 16 bits), or length 2 (if the
AHB transfer is 32 bits) and de-assert the chip select signal when the last data is strobed.
Such transfers are not the most efficient in terms of cycles compared to asynchronous read
operations. Nevertheless, a random asynchronous access would first require to re-program
the memory access mode, which would altogether last longer.

Cross boundary page for CellularRAM™ 1.5
CellularRAM™ 1.5 does not allow burst access to cross the page boundary. The FMC
controller is used to split automatically the burst access when the memory page size is
reached by configuring the CPSIZE bits in the FMC_BCR1 register following the memory
page size.

Wait management
For synchronous NOR flash memories, NWAIT is evaluated after the programmed latency
period, which corresponds to (DATLAT+2) CLK clock cycles.
If NWAIT is active (low level when WAITPOL = 0, high level when WAITPOL = 1), wait
states are inserted until NWAIT is inactive (high level when WAITPOL = 0, low level when
WAITPOL = 1).
When NWAIT is inactive, the data is considered valid either immediately (bit WAITCFG = 1)
or on the next clock edge (bit WAITCFG = 0).
During wait-state insertion via the NWAIT signal, the controller continues to send clock
pulses to the memory, keeping the chip select and output enable signals valid. It does not
consider the data as valid.
In Burst mode, there are two timing configurations for the NOR flash NWAIT signal:
•

The flash memory asserts the NWAIT signal one data cycle before the wait state
(default after reset).

•

The flash memory asserts the NWAIT signal during the wait state

RM0456 Rev 6