3631

Debug support (DBG)

RM0456
Table 789. Single-wire trace port pins

Pin name

Type

TRACESWO

O

Description

Pin assignment

Single-wire trace asynchronous data out

PB3(1)

1. TRACESWO is multiplexed with JTDO. This means that single-wire trace is only available when using the serial-wire debug
interface, and not when using JTAG.

75.2.3

DBG reset and clocks
The debug port (SWJ-DP) is reset by a power-on reset and when waking up
from Standby mode.
The debugger supplies the clock for the debug port via the debug interface pin
JTCK/SWCLK. This clock is used to register the serial input data in both serial-wire and
JTAG modes, as well as to operate the state machines and internal logic of the debug port.
This clock must therefore continue to toggle for several cycles after the end of an access, to
ensure that the debug port returns to the idle state.
The SWJ-DP contains an asynchronous interface to the DCLK domain, that covers the rest
of the SWJ-DP and the access port.
The DCLK is a gated version of the system clock.
The DCLK domain is enabled by the debugger using CDBGPWRUPREQ
in DP_CTRL/STATR. The clock must be enabled before the debugger can access any of the
device debug features. The availability of the clock is reflected by CDBGPWRUPACK
in DP_CTRL/STATR. The DCLK is disabled at power-up, and must be disabled when
the debugger is disconnected, to avoid wasting energy.
The debug and trace components included in the processor are clocked with the processor
clock.

75.2.4

DBG power domains
The debug components are located in the core power domain. This means that the
debugger connection is not possible in Shutdown or Standby low-power mode. To avoid
losing the connection when the device enters Standby mode, the power can be maintained
to the core by setting a bit in DBGMCU_CR. This also keeps the processor clocks active
and holds off the reset, so that the debug session is maintained.

75.2.5

Debug and low-power modes
The devices include power saving features that allow the core power domain to be switched
off or stopped when not required. If the power is switched off or if the core is not clocked, all
debug components are inaccessible to the debugger. To avoid this, power-saving mode
emulation is implemented. If the emulation is enabled for a domain, the domain still enters
power-saving mode, but its clock and power are maintained. In other words, the domain
behaves as if it is in power-saving mode, but the debugger does not lose the connection.
The emulation mode is programmed in the microcontroller debug (DBGMCU) unit. For more
information, refer to Section 75.12.