1259

Secure digital input/output MultiMediaCard interface (SDMMC)

31.5.6

RM0456

SDMMC AHB master interface
The AHB master interface is used to transfer the data between a memory and the FIFO
using the SDMMC IDMA.

SDMMC IDMA
Direct memory access (DMA) is used to provide high-speed transfer between the SDMMC
FIFO and the memory. The AHB master optimizes the bandwidth of the system bus. The
SDMMC internal DMA (IDMA) provides one channel to be used either for transmit or
receive.
The IDMA is enabled by the IDMAEN bit and supports burst transfers of 8 beats.
•

In transmit burst transfer mode:
–

•

Data are fetched in burst from memory whenever the FIFO is empty for the
number of burst transfers, until all data according DATALENGTH has been
transfered. When the DATALENGTH is not an integer multiple of the burst size the
remaining, smaller then burst size data is transfered using single transfer mode.
When the DATALENGTH is not an integer multiple of 4, the last remaining data (1,
2 or 3 bytes) are fetched with a word transfer.

In receive burst transfer mode:
–

Data are stored in burst in to memory whenever the FIFO contains the number of
burst transfers, until all data according DATALENGTH has been transfered.
When the DATALENGTH is not an integer multiple of the burst transfer the
remaining, smaller then burst size data, is transfered using single transfer mode.
When the DATALENGTH is not an integer multiple of 4, the last remaining data (1,
2 or 3 bytes) are stored with halfword and or byte transfers.

In addition the IDMA provides the following channel configurations selected by bit
IDMABMODE:
•

single buffered channel

•

linked list channel

Single buffered channel
In single buffer configuration the data at the memory side is accessed in a linear matter
starting from the base address IDMABASE. When the IDMA has finished transferring all
data the and the DPSM has completed the transfer the DATAEND flag is set.

Linked list channel
In linked list configuration, IDMAMODE = 1, the data at the memory side is subsequently
accessed from linked buffers, located at base address IDMABASE. The size of the memory
buffers is defined by IDMABSIZE. The buffer size must be an integer multiple of the burst
size. The bit ULA is used to indicate if a new linked list buffer configuration has to be loaded
from the linked list table. A new linked list configuration is loaded when the ULA bit for the
current linked list item is set.
The first linked list item configuration is programmed by firmware directly in the SDMMC
registers.
When the IDMA has finished transferring all the data of one linked list buffer, according
IDMABSIZE, and when the linked list item ULA bit is set, the IDMA loads the new linked list
item from the linked list table, and continues transferring data from the next linked list buffer.