1485

Digital-to-analog converter (DAC)

35.4.7

RM0456

DAC output voltage
Digital inputs are converted to output voltages on a linear conversion between 0 and VREF+.
The analog output voltages on each DAC channel pin are determined by the following
equation:
DOR
DAC output = V REF × ------------4096

where all voltages are expressed in Volt.

35.4.8

DAC trigger selection
If the TENx control bit is set, the conversion can then be triggered by an external event (timer
counter, external interrupt line). The TSELx[3:0] control bits determine which out of 16 possible events triggers the conversion as shown in TSELx[3:0] bits of the DAC_CR register.
These events can be either the software trigger or hardware triggers. Refer to the interconnection table in Section 35.4.2.
Each time a DAC interface detects a rising edge on the selected trigger source (refer to the
table below), the last data stored into the DAC_DHRx register are transferred into the
DAC_DORx register. The DAC_DORx register is updated three dac_hclk cycles after the
trigger occurs.
If the software trigger is selected, the conversion starts once the SWTRIG bit is set.
SWTRIG is reset by hardware once the DAC_DORx register has been loaded with the
DAC_DHRx register contents.

Note:

TSELx[3:0] bit cannot be changed when the ENx bit is set.
When software trigger is selected, the transfer from the DAC_DHRx register to the
DAC_DORx register takes only one dac_hclk clock cycle.

35.4.9

DMA requests
Each DAC channel has a DMA capability. Two DMA channels are used to service DAC
channel DMA requests.
When an external trigger (but not a software trigger) occurs while the DMAENx bit is set, the
value of the DAC_DHRx register is transferred into the DAC_DORx register when the
transfer is complete, and a DMA request is generated.
In dual mode, if both DMAENx bits are set, two DMA requests are generated. If only one
DMA request is needed, only the corresponding DMAENx bit must be set. In this way, the
application can manage both DAC channels in dual mode by using one DMA request and a
unique DMA channel.
As DAC_DHRx to DAC_DORx data transfer occurred before the DMA request, the very first
data has to be written to the DAC_DHRx before the first trigger event occurs.

DMA underrun
The DAC DMA request is not queued so that if a second external trigger arrives before the
acknowledgment for the first external trigger is received (first request), then no new request
is issued and the DMA channelx underrun flag DMAUDRx in the DAC_SR register is set,
reporting the error condition. The DAC channelx continues to convert old data.