RM0456 Rev 6

RM0456

Serial audio interface (SAI)

Bit 16 SAIEN: Audio block enable
This bit is set by software.
To switch off the audio block, the application software must program this bit to 0 and poll the bit till it
reads back 0, meaning that the block is completely disabled. Before setting this bit to 1, check that it
is set to 0, otherwise the enable command is not taken into account.
This bit enables to control the state of the SAI audio block. If it is disabled when an audio frame
transfer is ongoing, the ongoing transfer completes and the cell is fully disabled at the end of this
audio frame transfer.
0: SAI audio block disabled
1: SAI audio block enabled.
Note: When the SAI block (A or B) is configured in master mode, the clock must be present on the
SAI block input before setting SAIEN bit.
Bits 15:14 Reserved, must be kept at reset value.
Bit 13 OUTDRIV: Output drive
This bit is set and cleared by software.
0: Audio block output driven when SAIEN is set
1: Audio block output driven immediately after the setting of this bit.
Note: This bit has to be set before enabling the audio block and after the audio block configuration.
Bit 12 MONO: Mono mode
This bit is set and cleared by software. It is meaningful only when the number of slots is equal to 2.
When the mono mode is selected, slot 0 data are duplicated on slot 1 when the audio block operates
as a transmitter. In reception mode, the slot1 is discarded and only the data received from slot 0 are
stored. Refer to Section : Mono/stereo mode for more details.
0: Stereo mode
1: Mono mode.
Bits 11:10 SYNCEN[1:0]: Synchronization enable
These bits are set and cleared by software. They must be configured when the audio subblock is
disabled.
00: audio subblock in asynchronous mode.
01: audio subblock is synchronous with the other internal audio subblock. In this case, the audio
subblock must be configured in slave mode
10: audio subblock is synchronous with an external SAI embedded peripheral. In this case the audio
subblock must be configured in Slave mode.
11: Reserved
Note: The audio subblock must be configured as asynchronous when SPDIF mode is enabled.
Bit 9 CKSTR: Clock strobing edge
This bit is set and cleared by software. It must be configured when the audio block is disabled. This
bit has no meaning in SPDIF audio protocol.
0: Signals generated by the SAI change on SCK rising edge, while signals received by the SAI are
sampled on the SCK falling edge.
1: Signals generated by the SAI change on SCK falling edge, while signals received by the SAI are
sampled on the SCK rising edge.
Bit 8 LSBFIRST: Least significant bit first
This bit is set and cleared by software. It must be configured when the audio block is disabled. This
bit has no meaning in AC’97 audio protocol since AC’97 data are always transferred with the MSB
first. This bit has no meaning in SPDIF audio protocol since in SPDIF data are always transferred
with LSB first.
0: Data are transferred with MSB first
1: Data are transferred with LSB first

RM0456 Rev 6