RM0456 Rev 6

RM0456

Low-power direct memory access controller (LPDMA)
LPDMA also generates a security illegal access pulse signal on an illegal nonsecure access
to a secure LPDMA register. This signal is routed to the TrustZone interrupt controller.
When the secure software must switch a channel from a secure state to a nonsecure state,
the secure software must abort the channel or wait until the secure channel is completed
before switching. This is needed to dynamically re-allocate a channel to a next nonsecure
transfer as a nonsecure software is not allowed to do so and must have
LPDMA_CxCR.EN = 0 before the nonsecure software can reprogram the LPDMA_CxCR for
a next transfer. The secure software may reset not only the channel x
(LPDMA_CxCR.RESET = 1) but also the full channel x register file to its reset value.

18.4.15

LPDMA privileged/unprivileged channel
Any channel x is a privileged or unprivileged hardware resource, as configured by a
privileged agent via LPDMA_PRIVCFGR.PRIVx.
When a channel x is configured in a privileged state by a privileged agent, the following
access control rules are applied:
•

An unprivileged read access to a register field of this channel is forced to return 0,
except for LPDMA_PRIVCFGR, LPDMA_SECCFGR, that are readable by an
unprivileged agent.

•

An unprivileged write access to a register field of this channel has no impact.

When a channel is configured in a privileged (or unprivileged) state, the source and
destination data transfers are privileged (respectively unprivileged) transfers over the AHB
master port.
When a channel is configured in a privileged (or unprivileged) state and in linked-list mode,
the loading of the next linked-list data structure from the LPDMA memory into its register file,
is automatically performed with privileged (respectively unprivileged) transfers, via the
master port.
LPDMA generates a DMA channel state versus privilege, reflecting LPDMA_PRIVCFGR,
to keep the other peripherals informed of the privileged/unprivileged state of each DMA
channel x.
Additionally, the LPDMA generates the privileged illegal access pulse signal on an illegal
unprivileged access to a privileged LPDMA register. This signal may be used or not,
depending on the product (see the system security section for more details).
When the privileged software must switch a channel from a privileged state to
an unprivileged state, the privileged software must abort the channel or wait until that the
privileged channel is completed before switching. This is needed to dynamically re-allocate
a channel to a next unprivileged transfer as an unprivileged software is not allowed to do so,
and must have LPDMA_CxCR.EN = 0 before the unprivileged software can reprogram the
LPDMA_CxCR for a next transfer. The privileged software may reset not only the channel x
(LPDMA_CxCR.RESET = 1) but also the full channel x register file to its reset value.

RM0456 Rev 6