There is no hardware protection to prevent these forbidden write accesses that may cause
the ADC to enter an unknown state. To recover from this situation, the ADC must be
disabled (clear ADEN as well as all the bits of the ADC_CR register).

RM0456 Rev 6

RM0456

33.4.11

Analog-to-digital converter (ADC12)

Channel selection (SQRx, JSQRx)
The ADC features up to 20 multiplexed channels per ADC:
•

Up to 17 analog inputs coming from GPIO pads

•

Each ADC is connected to 3 internal analog inputs:
–

the internal temperature sensor (VSENSE)

–

the internal reference voltage (VREFINT)

–

the VBAT monitoring channel (VBAT/4)

Refer to Table ADC interconnection in Section 33.4.2: ADC pins and internal signals for the
connection of the above internal analog inputs to external ADC pins or internal signals.
The conversions can be organized in two groups: regular and injected. A group consists of a
sequence of conversions that can be done on any channel and in any order. For instance, it
is possible to implement the conversion sequence in the following order: ADC_IN3,
ADC_IN8, ADC_IN2, ADC_IN2, ADC_IN0, ADC_IN2, ADC_IN2, ADC_IN15.
•

A regular group is composed of up to 16 conversions. The regular channels and their
order in the conversion sequence must be selected in the ADC_SQRy registers. The
total number of conversions in the regular group must be written in the L[3:0] bits in the
ADC_SQR1 register.

•

An injected group is composed of up to four conversions. The injected channels and
their order in the conversion sequence must be selected in the ADC_JSQR register.
The total number of conversions in the injected group must be written in the L[1:0] bits
in the ADC_JSQR register.

ADC_SQRy registers must not be modified while regular conversions are ongoing. To
modify ADC_SQRy registers, the ADC regular conversions must first be stopped by setting
ADSTP (refer to Section 33.4.18: Stopping an ongoing conversion (ADSTP, JADSTP)).
Note:

To convert one of the internal analog channels, the corresponding analog sources must first
be enabled by programming VBATEN, VSENSESEL, or VREFEN bits in the ADC12_CCR
registers.

33.4.12

Channel preselection register (ADC_PCSEL)
For each channel selected through SQRx or JSQRx bits, the corresponding ADC_PCSEL
bit must be configured in advance.
This ADC_PCSEL bit controls the analog switch integrated in the I/O level. The ADC input
multiplexer selects the ADC input according to SQRx and JSQRx configuration with very
high speed and the analog switch integrated in the I/O cannot react as fast as the ADC
multiplexer does. To avoid the delay due to on analog switch control on the I/O, it is
necessary to preselect the input channels that are selected through the SQRx and JSQRx.
The selection is based on the VINP[i] of each ADC input. For example, if the ADC converts
ADC_IN1, the PCSEL1 bit must also be set in ADC_PCSEL.

33.4.13

Channel-wise programmable sampling time (SMPR1, SMPR2)
Before starting a conversion, the ADC must establish a direct connection between the
voltage source under measurement and the embedded sampling capacitor of the ADC. This
sampling time must be enough for the input voltage source to charge the embedded
capacitor to the input voltage level.

RM0456 Rev 6