2952

Serial peripheral interface (SPI)

RM0456

The spi_pclk clock signal feeds the peripheral bus interface. It must be active when
accesses to the SPI registers are required.
The SPI working in slave mode handles a data flow using the serial interface clock derived
from the external SCK signal provided by the external master SPI device. That is why the
SPI slave is able to receive and send data even when the spi_pclk and spi_ker_ck clock
signals are inactive. As a consequence, a specific slave logic working within the serial
interface clock domain needs some additional traffic to be set up correctly (for example
when underrun or overrun is evaluated, see Section 68.5.2 for details). This cannot be done
when the bus becomes idle. In some specific cases, the slave even requires the clock
generator working (see Section 68.5.1).
When the SPI works as a master, the RCC must provide the spi_ker_ck kernel clock to the
peripheral during communication to feed the serial interface clock via the clock generator
where it can be divided by prescaler or bypassed. The signal is then provided to the slaves
via the SCK pin and internally to the serial interface domain of the master.

68.4.2

SPI pins and internal signals
Up to five I/O pins are dedicated to SPI communication with external devices.
•

MISO: master in / slave out data. In the general case, this pin is used to transmit data in
slave mode and receive data in master mode.

•

MOSI: master out / slave in data. In the general case, this pin is used to transmit data in
master mode and receive data in slave mode.

•

SCK: serial clock output pin for SPI masters and input pin for SPI slaves.

•

SS: slave select pin. Depending on the SPI and SS settings, this pin can be used to
either:
–

Select an individual slave device for communication

–

Synchronize the data frame, or

–

Detect a conflict between multiple masters

See Section 68.4.7 for details.
•

RDY: optional status pin signaling slave FIFO occupancies and so the slave availability
to continue the transfer without any risk of data flow corruption. It can be checked by
the master to control the temporal suspension of the ongoing communication.

The SPI bus enables the communication between one master device and one or more slave
devices. The bus consists of at least two wires: one for the clock signal and the other for
synchronous data transfer. Other signals are optional and can be added depending on the
data exchange between SPI nodes and their communication control management.
Refer to Table 697 and Table 698 for the list of SPI input / output pins and internal signals.
Table 697. SPI input/output pins
Pin name

Description

MISO(1)

Input/output Master data input / slave data output

(1)

Input/output Master data output / slave data input

MOSI