1.

Calculate e = HASH(m), where HASH is a cryptographic hash function.

2.

Let z be the Ln leftmost bits of e, where Ln is the bit length of the group order n.

3.

Select a cryptographically secure random integer k where 0 < k < n.

4.

Calculate the curve point (x1, y1) = k x G.

5.

Calculate r = x1 mod n. If r = 0 go back to step 3.

6.

Calculate s = k-1 (z + rdA) mod n. If s = 0 go back to step 3.

7.

The signature is the pair (r, s).

RM0456 Rev 6

RM0456

Public key accelerator (PKA)
Steps 4 to 7 are accelerated by PKA using:
•

ECDSA sign or

•

All of the operations below:
–

ECC Fp scalar multiplication k x P

–

Modular reduction A mod n

–

Modular inversion A-1 mod n

–

Modular addition and Modular and Montgomery multiplication

ECDSA signature verification
ECDSA (elliptic curve digital signature algorithm) signature verification function principle is
the following: Bob, to authenticate Alice's signature, must have a copy of her public key
curve point QA.
Bob can verify that QA is a valid curve point going through the following steps:
1.

check that QA is not equal to the identity element O

2.

check that QA is on the agreed curve

3.

check that n x QA = O.

Then Bob follows the procedure detailed below:
1.

verify that r and s are integer in [1, n-1]

2.

calculate e = HASH(m), where HASH is the agreed cryptographic hash function

3.

let z be the Ln leftmost bits of e

4.

calculate w = s-1 mod n

5.

calculate u1 = zw mod n and u2 = rw mod n

6.

calculate the curve point (x1, y1) = u1 x G + u2 x QA

7.

the signature is valid if r = x1 (mod n), it is invalid otherwise.

Steps 4 to 7 are accelerated by PKA using ECDSA verification.

53.3.6

PKA procedure to perform an operation
Enabling/disabling PKA
Setting the EN bit to 1 in PKA_CR register enables the PKA peripheral. The PKA becomes
available when INITOK bit is set in PKA_SR. When EN = 0, the PKA peripheral is kept
under reset, with PKA memory still accessible by the application through the AHB interface.

Note:

When PKA is in the process of clearing its memory EN bit cannot be set.
When setting EN bit in PKA_CR make sure that the value of MODE bitfield corresponds to
an authorized PKA operation (see OPERRF in Section 53.3.7).
Clearing EN bit to 0 while a calculation is in progress causes the operation to be aborted. In
this case, the content of the PKA memory is not guaranteed, with the exception of the PKA
modes 0x03, 0x20 and 0x24. For these operations, the PKA memory is cleared after abort,
making the memory unavailable for 667 cycles. During this clearing time only PKA registers
can be accessed, with writes to EN bits ignored.
If INITOK bit stays at 0, make sure that the RNG peripheral is clocked and properly
initialized, then try to enable PKA again.

RM0456 Rev 6