191

System security

3.8.2

RM0456

•

as encryption/decryption key for another key, to be used in the DPA-resistant SAES
(wrapped key mode)

•

as encryption/decryption key for another key, to be used in a faster AES engine (shared
key mode)

Unique ID
The devices store a 96-bit ID that is unique to each device (see Section 76.1: Unique device
ID register (96 bits)).
Application services can use this unique identity key to identify the product in the cloud
network, or make it difficult for counterfeit devices or clones to inject untrusted data into the
network.
Alternatively, the 256-bit device unique key (DHUK) can be used (see Section 3.8.1).

3.9

Cryptographic engines
The devices implement state-of-the-art cryptographic algorithms featuring key sizes and
computing protection as recommended by national security agencies such as NIST for the
U.S.A, BSI for Germany or ANSSI for France. Those algorithms are used to support privacy,
authentication, integrity, entropy and identity attestation.
The cryptographic engines embedded in STM32 reduce the weaknesses on the
implementation of critical cryptographic functions, preventing, for example, the use of weak
cryptographic algorithms and key sizes. They also enable lower processing times and lower
power consumption when performing cryptographic operations, offloading those
computations from Cortex-M33. This is especially true for asymmetric cryptography.
For product certification purpose, ST can provide certified device information on how these
security functions are implemented and validated.
For more information on cryptographic engine processing times, refer to their respective
sections in the reference manual.

3.9.1

Cryptographic engines features
Table 19 lists the accelerated cryptographic operations available in the devices. Two AES
accelerators are available (both can be reserved to secure application only).

Note:

Additional operations can be added using the firmware.
The PKA can accelerate asymmetric cryptographic operations (like key pair generation,
ECC scalar multiplication, point on curve check). See Section 53: Public key accelerator
(PKA) for more details.