1599

Multi-function digital filter (MDF)

RM0456

Bit 6 THHF: High-threshold status flag
This bit is set by hardware and cleared by software by writing this bit to 1. It indicates the
status of the high-threshold comparator when the last OLD0 event occurred. This bit gives
additional information on the conditions triggering the last OLD0 event. It can be cleared by
writing OLDF flag to 1.
0: The signal was lower than OLDTHH when the last OLD0 event occurred.
1: The signal was higher than OLDTHH when the last OLD0 event occurred.
Bit 5 THLF: Low-threshold status flag
This bit is set by hardware and cleared by software by writing this bit to 1. It indicates the
status of the low-threshold comparator when the last OLD0 event occurred. This bit gives
additional information on the conditions triggering the last OLD0 event. It can be cleared by
writing OLDF flag to 1.
0: The signal was higher than OLDTHL when the last OLD0 event occurred.
1: The signal was lower than OLDTHL when the last OLD0 event occurred.
Bit 4 OLDF: OLD0 flag
This bit is set by hardware and cleared by software by writing this bit to 1.
0: Read 0 means that no OLD0 event is detected. Write 0 has no effect.
1: Read 1 means that an OLD0 event is detected Write 1 clears THHF, THLF and OLDF.
Bit 3 RXNEF: RXFIFO not-empty flag
this bit is set and cleared by hardware according to the RXFIFO level.
0: RXFIFO empty
1: RXFIFO not empty
Bit 2 SSDRF: Snapshot data ready flag
This bit is set by hardware and cleared by software by writing this bit to 1.
0: Read 0 means that no data is available. Write 0 has no effect.
1: Read 1 means that a new data is available. Write 1 clears this flag.
Bit 1 DOVRF: Data overflow flag
This bit is set by hardware and cleared by software by writing this bit to 1.
0: Read 0 means that no overflow is detected. Write 0 has no effect.
1: Read 1 means that an overflow is detected; Write 1 clears this flag.
Bit 0 FTHF: RXFIFO threshold flag
This bit is set by hardware and cleared by hardware when the RXFIFO level is lower than the
threshold.
0: RXFIFO threshold not reached
1: RXFIFO threshold reached