RM0456 Rev 6

RM0456

58.4.14

Low-power timer (LPTIM)

Timer counter reset
In order to reset the content of LPTIM_CNT register, two reset mechanisms are
implemented:
•

Note:

The synchronous reset mechanism: the synchronous reset is controlled by the
COUNTRST bit in the LPTIM_CR register. After setting the COUNTRST bitfield to '1',
the reset signal is propagated in the LPTIM kernel clock domain. So it is important to
note that a few clock pulses of the LPTIM kernel logic elapse before the reset is taken
into account. This makes the LPTIM counter count few extra pluses between the time
when the reset is triggered and it become effective. Since the COUNTRST bit is
located in the APB clock domain and the LPTIM counter is located in the LPTIM kernel
clock domain, a delay of 3 clock cycles of the kernel clock is needed to synchronize the
reset signal issued by the APB clock domain when writing '1' to the COUNTRST bit.

The software should ensure that COUNRST bit is '0' before generating every synchronous
reset.
•

The asynchronous reset mechanism: the asynchronous reset is controlled by the
RSTARE bit located in the LPTIM_CR register. When this bit is set to '1', any read
access to the LPTIM_CNT register resets its content to zero. Asynchronous reset must
be triggered within a timeframe in which no LPTIM core clock is provided. For example
when LPTIM Input1 is used as external clock source, the asynchronous reset must be
applied only when there is enough insurance that no toggle occurs on the LPTIM
Input1.
To read reliably the content of the LPTIM_CNT register two successive read accesses
must be performed and compared. A read access can be considered reliable when the
value of the two read accesses is equal. Unfortunately when asynchronous reset is
enabled there is no possibility to read twice the LPTIM_CNT register.

Warning:

58.4.15

There is no mechanism inside the LPTIM that prevents the
two reset mechanisms from being used simultaneously. The
developer must make sure that these two mechanisms are
used exclusively.

Encoder mode
This mode allows handling signals from quadrature encoders used to detect angular
position of rotary elements. Encoder interface mode acts simply as an external clock with
direction selection. This means that the counter just counts continuously between 0 and the
auto-reload value programmed into the LPTIM_ARR register (0 up to ARR or ARR down to
0 depending on the direction). Therefore LPTIM_ARR must be configured before starting
the counter. From the two external input signals, Input1 and Input2, a clock signal is
generated to clock the LPTIM counter. The phase between those two signals determines
the counting direction.
The Encoder mode is only available when the LPTIM is clocked by an internal clock source.
The signals frequency on both Input1 and Input2 inputs must not exceed the LPTIM internal
clock frequency divided by 4. This is mandatory in order to guarantee a proper operation of
the LPTIM.

RM0456 Rev 6