1377

Analog-to-digital converter (ADC12)

RM0456

Analog watchdog threshold control
LTRx[24:0] and HTRx[24:0] can be changed when an analog-to-digital conversion is
ongoing (that is between the start of conversion and the end of conversion of the ADC
internal state). If LTRx[24:0] and HTRx[24:0] are updated during the ADC conversion of the
ADC guarded channel, the watchdog function is masked for this conversion. This masking is
removed at the next start of conversion, resulting in an analog watchdog thresholds to be
applied from the next ADC conversion. The analog watchdog comparison is performed at
each end of conversion. If the current ADC data is out of the new interval, no interrupt and
AWDx_OUT signal are issued. The interrupt and the AWD generation only happen at the
end of the conversion which started after the threshold update. If AWD_xOUT is already
asserted, programming the new thresholds does not deassert the AWD_OUT signal.

Analog watchdog with gain and offset compensation
When gain and offset compensation are enabled, the analog watchdog compares the
threshold after the compensated data.

33.4.31

Oversampler
The oversampling unit performs data preprocessing to offload the CPU. It is able to handle
multiple conversions and average them into a single data with increased data width, up to
24-bit (14-bit values and OSR = 1024).
It provides a result with the following form, where N and M can be adjusted:

n = N–1

1
Result = ---- ×
M

∑ Conversion(tn)
n=0

It enables the following functions to be performed by hardware: averaging, data rate
reduction, SNR improvement, basic filtering.
The oversampling ratio N is defined using the OSR[9:0] bits in the ADC_CFGR2 register,
and can range from 2x to 1024x. The division coefficient M consists of a right bit shift up to
10 bits, and is defined using the OVSS[3:0] bits in the ADC_CFGR2 register.
The summation unit can yield a result up to 24 bits (1024 x 14-bit results), which can be left
or right shifted. When right shifting is selected, it is rounded to the nearest value using the
least significant bits left apart by the shifting, before being transferred into the ADC_DR data
register.
Figure 253 gives a numerical example of the processing, from a raw 24-bit accumulated
data to the final 14-bit result.