363

Embedded flash memory (FLASH)

RM0456

Bit 19 OEM2LOCK: OEM2 lock
This bit indicates that the OEM2 RDP key read during the OBL is not virgin. When set,
the OEM2 RDP lock mechanism is active.
Bit 18 OEM1LOCK: OEM1 lock
This bit indicates that the OEM1 RDP key read during the OBL is not virgin. When set,
the OEM1 RDP lock mechanism is active.
Bit 17 WDW: Nonsecure wait data to write
This bit indicates that the flash memory write buffer has been written by a secure or
non-secure operation. It is set when the first data is stored in the buffer and cleared when
the write is performed in the flash memory.
Bit 16 BSY: Nonsecure busy
This indicates that a flash memory secure or nonsecure operation is in progress. This bit is
set at the beginning of a flash operation and reset when the operation finishes or when
an error occurs.
Bits 15:14 Reserved, must be kept at reset value.
Bit 13 OPTWERR: Option write error
This bit is set by hardware when the options bytes are written with an invalid configuration.
It is cleared by writing 1.
Refer to Section 7.3.9 for full conditions of error flag setting.
Bits 12:8 Reserved, must be kept at reset value.
Bit 7 PGSERR: Nonsecure programming sequence error
This bit is set by hardware when programming sequence is not correct. It is cleared
by writing 1. Refer to Section 7.3.9 for full conditions of error flag setting.
Bit 6 SIZERR: Nonsecure size error
This bit is set by hardware when the size of the access is a byte or half-word during a
nonsecure program sequence. Only quad-word programming is allowed by means of
successive word accesses. This bit is cleared by writing 1.
Bit 5 PGAERR: Nonsecure programming alignment error
This bit is set by hardware when the first word to be programmed is not aligned with
a quad-word address, or the second, third or forth word does not belong to the same
quad-word address. This bit is cleared by writing 1.
Bit 4 WRPERR: Nonsecure write protection error
This bit is set by hardware when a nonsecure address to be erased/programmed belongs to
a write-protected part (by WRP, HDP or RDP level 1) of the flash memory. This bit is cleared
by writing 1. Refer to Section 7.3.9 for full conditions of error flag setting.
Bit 3 PROGERR: Nonsecure programming error
This bit is set by hardware when a nonsecure quad-word address to be programmed
contains a value different from all 1 before programming, except if the data to write is all 0.
This bit is cleared by writing 1.
Bit 2 Reserved, must be kept at reset value.
Bit 1 OPERR: Nonsecure operation error
This bit is set by hardware when a flash memory nonsecure operation (program/erase)
completes unsuccessfully. This bit is set only if nonsecure error interrupts are enabled
(NSERRIE = 1). This bit is cleared by writing 1.