RM0456 Rev 6

RM0456

71.5.2

Universal serial bus full-speed host/device interface (USB)

System and power-on reset
Upon system and power-on reset, the first operation the application software must perform
is to provide all required clock signals to the USB peripheral and subsequently de-assert its
reset signal so to be able to access its registers. The whole initialization sequence is
hereafter described.
As a first step application software needs to activate register macrocell clock and de-assert
macrocell specific reset signal using related control bits provided by device clock
management logic.
After that, the analog part of the device related to the USB transceiver must be switched on
using the PDWN bit in CNTR register, which requires a special handling. This bit is intended
to switch on the internal voltage references that supply the port transceiver. This circuit has
a defined startup time (tSTARTUP specified in the datasheet) during which the behavior of the
USB transceiver is not defined. It is thus necessary to wait this time, after setting the PDWN
bit in the CNTR register, before removing the reset condition on the USB part (by clearing
the USBRST bit in the CNTR register). Clearing the ISTR register removes any spurious
pending interrupt before any other macrocell operation is enabled.
At system reset, the microcontroller must initialize all required registers and the packet
buffer description table, to make the USB peripheral able to properly generate interrupts and
data transfers. All registers not specific to any endpoint/channel must be initialized
according to the needs of application software (choice of enabled interrupts, chosen
address of packet buffers, etc.). Then the process continues as for the USB reset case (see
further paragraph).

USB bus reset (RST_DCON interrupt) in Device mode
When this event occurs, the USB peripheral is put in the same conditions it is left by the
system reset after the initialization described in the previous paragraph: communication is
disabled in all endpoint registers (the USB peripheral does not respond to any packet). As a
response to the USB reset event, the USB function must be enabled, having as USB
address 0, implementing only the default control endpoint (endpoint address is 0 too). This
is accomplished by setting the enable function (EF) bit of the USB_DADDR register and
initializing the CHEP0R register and its related packet buffers accordingly. During USB
enumeration process, the host assigns a unique address to this device, which must be
written in the ADD[6:0] bits of the USB_DADDR register, and configures any other
necessary endpoint.
When a RST_DCON interrupt is received, the application software is responsible to enable
again the default endpoint of USB function 0 within 10 ms from the end of the reset
sequence which triggered the interrupt.

USB bus reset in Host mode
In Host mode a bus reset is activated by setting the USBRST bit of the USB_CNTR register.
It must subsequently be cleared by software once the minimum active reset time from the
standard has been respected.

Structure and usage of packet buffers
Each bidirectional endpoint can receive or transmit data over the bus. The received data is
stored in a dedicated memory buffer reserved for that endpoint, while another memory
buffer contains the data to be transmitted by the endpoint. Access to this memory is
performed by the packet buffer interface block, which delivers a memory access request

RM0456 Rev 6