RM0456 Rev 6

RM0456

Serial peripheral interface (SPI)
MASRX operation, the user can interleave and so extend the transfer time by inserting
additional dummy clock cycles so that the period for a single data frame is higher or equal to
eight SCK duration. This is done by setting the MIDI[3:0] bitfield of the SPI_CFG2 register.

Caution:

If the SPE bit is cleared in master mode while the transfer is ongoing without any
suspension, the clock is stopped even if the current frame transmission is not complete, and
the content of the FIFOs is flushed and lost.

68.4.13

Disabling the SPI
To disable the SPI, it is mandatory to follow the disable procedures described in this
paragraph.
In the master mode, it is important to do this before the system enters a low-power mode
when the peripheral clock is stopped, otherwise, ongoing transfers may be corrupted.
In slave mode, the SPI communication can continue when the spi_pclk and spi_ker_ck
clocks are stopped, without interruption, until any end of communication or data service
request condition is reached. The spi_pclk can generally be stopped by setting the system
into Stop mode. Refer to the RCC section for further information.
The master in full-duplex or transmit-only mode can finish any transfers when it stops
providing data for transmission. In this case, the clock stops after the last data transfer. TXC
flag can be polled (or interrupt enabled with EOTIE = 1) in order to wait for the last data
frame to be sent.
When the master is in any receive-only mode, to stop the peripheral, the SPI communication
must first be suspended, by setting the CSUSP bit.
The data received but not read remain stored in RxFIFO when the SPI is suspended.
After such a software suspension, SPI must always be disabled to restart the internal state
machine properly.
When SPI is disabled, RxFIFO is flushed. To prevent losing unread data, the user must
ensure that RxFIFO is empty when disabling the SPI, by reading all remaining data (as
indicated by the RXP, RXWNE, and RXPLVL fields in the SPI_SR register).
The standard disable procedure is based on polling EOT and/or TXC status to check if a
transmission session is (fully) completed. This check can be done in specific cases, too,
when it is necessary to identify the end of ongoing transfers, for example:
•

When the master handles the SS signal by a GPIO not related to SPI (for example at
case of multislave star topology) and it has to provide a proper end-of-SS pulse for the
slave, or

•

When transfers from DMA or FIFO are completed while the last data frame or CRC
frame transfer is still ongoing in the peripheral bus.

When TSIZE > 0, EOT and TXC signals are equal so polling of EOT is reliable at whatever
SPI communication mode to check the end of the bus activity. When TSIZE = 0, the user
has to check TXC, SUSP, or FIFO occupancy flags according to the applied SPI mode and
the way of the data flow termination.
The correct disable procedure in master mode, except when receive-only mode is used, is:
1.

Wait until TXC = 1 and/or EOT = 1 (no more data to transmit and last data frame sent).
When CRC is used, it is sent automatically after the last data in the block is processed.

RM0456 Rev 6