TSF is set up to 3 ck_apre cycles after TAMPxF flags. TSF is not set if RTCCLK is stopped
(it is set when RTCCLK restarts).

RM0456 Rev 6

RM0456
Note:

Tamper and backup registers (TAMP)
If TAMPxF is cleared before the expected rise of TSF, TSF is not set. Consequently, in case
TAMPTS = 1, the software should either wait for timestamp flag before clearing the tamper
flag, or should read the RTC counters values in the TAMP interrupt routine.

Edge detection on tamper inputs (passive mode)
If the TAMPFLT bits are 00, the TAMP_INx pins generate tamper detection events when
either a rising edge or a falling edge is observed depending on the corresponding
TAMPxTRG bit. The internal pull-up resistors on the TAMP_INx inputs are deactivated when
edge detection is selected.
Caution:

When TAMPFLT = 00 and TAMPxTRG = 0 (rising edge detection), a tamper event may be
detected by hardware if the tamper input is already at high level before enabling the tamper
detection.
After a tamper event has been detected and cleared, the TAMP_INx should be disabled and
then re-enabled (TAMPxE set to 1) before re-programming the backup registers
(TAMP_BKPxR). This prevents the application from writing to the backup registers while the
TAMP_INx input value still indicates a tamper detection. This is equivalent to a level
detection on the TAMP_INx input.

Note:

Tamper detection is still active when VDD power is switched off. To avoid unwanted resetting
of the backup registers, the pin to which the TAMPx is mapped should be externally tied to
the correct level.

Level detection with filtering on tamper inputs (passive mode)
Level detection with filtering is performed by setting TAMPFLT to a non-zero value. A tamper
detection event is generated when either 2, 4, or 8 (depending on TAMPFLT) consecutive
samples are observed at the level designated by the TAMPxTRG bits.
The TAMP_INx inputs are precharged through the I/O internal pull-up resistance before its
state is sampled, unless disabled by setting TAMPPUDIS to 1. The duration of the
precharge is determined by the TAMPPRCH bits, allowing for larger capacitances on the
TAMP_INx inputs.
The trade-off between tamper detection latency and power consumption through the pull-up
can be optimized by using TAMPFREQ to determine the frequency of the sampling for level
detection. The TAMP_IN I/O schmitt trigger is enabled only during the precharge duration to
avoid any extra consumption if the tamper switch is open (floating state).

RM0456 Rev 6