RM0456 Rev 6

RM0456

Reset and clock control (RCC)
When the peripheral clock is not active, read or write accesses to the peripheral registers
are not supported.
The enable bit has a synchronization mechanism to create a glitch-free clock for the
peripheral. After the enable bit is set, there the clock is active after 2 cycles of the peripheral
bus clock.

Caution:

Just after enabling the clock for a peripheral, the software must wait for these two clock
cycles before accessing the peripheral registers.

Peripherals clock gating in Sleep and Stop modes
When a peripheral is enabled, its clock can be automatically gated off when the device is in
Sleep mode, by clearing the peripheral SMEN bit in RCC_AHBxSMENR and
RCC_APBxSMENR. Both EN and SMEN of the peripheral must be set to keep the clock on
in Sleep mode.
The SMEN bit of the peripheral is also used to allow peripheral clocking in Stop 0 and Stop 1
modes, upon peripheral request.
When the clock is requested by a peripheral, this clock is distributed to all enabled
peripherals. Therefore, the SMEN bit must be cleared before entering Stop mode, if the
peripheral is not used in Stop mode.
Caution:

The SMEN bit of the peripheral must be set to allow the generation of an interrupt capable to
wake up the device from Stop mode. This is not necessary when the peripheral wake-up
interrupt is generated though the EXTI.

Peripherals clock gating and autonomous mode in Stop 0/1/2 modes
Some peripherals support autonomous mode (refer to Table 116). These peripherals are
able to generate a kernel clock request and a AHB/APB bus clock request when they need,
in order to operate and update their status register even in Stop mode. Depending on the
peripheral configuration, either a DMA request or an interrupt can be associated to the
peripheral event.
Upon an AHB or APB bus clock request from an autonomous peripheral, either MSI or
HSI16 oscillator is woken up, depending on the oscillator selected by STOPWUCK
in RCC_CFGR1.
If the autonomous peripheral is configured with DMA requests enabled, a data transfer is
performed thanks to the AHB/APB clock. The bus clocks as well as the oscillator (HSI16 or
MSI) are automatically switched off as soon as the transfer is finished, if no other peripheral
requests it. The device automatically goes back in Stop mode.
If the autonomous peripheral is configured with interrupt enabled, the interrupt wakes up
the device into Run mode.
The autonomous peripherals mapped on AHB3 or APB3 belong to the SmartRun domain
and are autonomous in Stop 0, Stop 1, and Stop 2 with the LPDMA1 and SRAM4.
The autonomous peripherals mapped on AHB1, AHB2, APB1, and APB2, belong to
the CPU domain, and are autonomous in Stop 0 and Stop 1 mode, only with GPDMA1
and SRAM1/2/3/4/5/6.

RM0456 Rev 6