763

General purpose direct memory access controller (GPDMA)

RM0456

When the secure software must switch a channel from a secure state to a nonsecure state,
the secure software must abort the channel or wait until the secure channel is completed
before switching. This is needed to dynamically re-allocate a channel to a next nonsecure
transfer as a nonsecure software is not allowed to do so and must have
GPDMA_CxCR.EN = 0 before the nonsecure software can reprogram the GPDMA_CxCR
for a next transfer. The secure software may reset not only the channel x
(GPDMA_CxCR.RESET = 1) but also the full channel x register file to its reset value.

17.4.15

GPDMA privileged/unprivileged channel
Any channel x is a privileged or unprivileged hardware resource, as configured by a
privileged agent via GPDMA_PRIVCFGR.PRIVx.
When a channel x is configured in a privileged state by a privileged agent, the following
access control rules are applied:
•

An unprivileged read access to a register field of this channel is forced to return 0,
except for GPDMA_PRIVCFGR, GPDMA_SECCFGR, and GPDMA_RCFGLOCKR
that are readable by an unprivileged agent.

•

An unprivileged write access to a register field of this channel has no impact.

When a channel is configured in a privileged (or unprivileged) state, the source and
destination data transfers are privileged (respectively unprivileged) transfers over the AHB
master port.
When a channel is configured in a privileged (or unprivileged) state and in linked-list mode,
the loading of the next linked-list data structure from the GPDMA memory into its register
file, is automatically performed with privileged (respectively unprivileged) transfers, via the
GPDMA_CxCR.LAP allocated master port.
The GPDMA generates a privileged bus that reflects GPDMA_PRIVCFGR, to keep the
other peripherals informed of the privileged/unprivileged state of each GPDMA channel x.
When the privileged software must switch a channel from a privileged state to
an unprivileged state, the privileged software must abort the channel or wait until that the
privileged channel is completed before switching. This is needed to dynamically re-allocate
a channel to a next unprivileged transfer as an unprivileged software is not allowed to do so,
and must have GPDMA_CxCR.EN = 0 before the unprivileged software can reprogram the
GPDMA_CxCR for a next transfer. The privileged software may reset not only the channel x
(GPDMA_CxCR.RESET = 1) but also the full channel x register file to its reset value.

17.4.16

GPDMA error management
The GPDMA is able to manage and report to the user a transfer error, as follows, depending
on the root cause.

Data transfer error
On a bus access (as a AHB single or a burst) to the source or the destination: