RM0456 Rev 6

RM0456

Embedded flash memory (FLASH)
The flash memory is protected according to the RDP option byte value shown
in the table below.
Table 64. Flash memory readout protection status (TZEN = 0)

•

RDP byte value

Readout protection level

0xAA

Level 0

Any value except 0xAA or 0xCC

Level 1

0xCC

Level 2

Level 0: no protection
Read, program and erase operations into the flash main memory area are possible.
The option bytes, the SRAMs and the backup registers are also accessible by all
operations.

•

Level 1: readout protection
When the readout protection level 1 is set:

•

–

User mode: code executing in user mode (boot flash) can access the flash main
memory, option bytes, SRAMs and backup registers with all operations (read,
erase, program).

–

Debug, boot RAM, and bootloader modes: in debug mode or when the MCU
boots from RAM or system memory, the flash main memory, backup registers, the
backup RAM, and the SRAM2 are totally inaccessible: any read or write access
to the flash main memory generates a bus error and a HardFault interrupt.
The on-the-fly decryption region (OTFDEC on OCTOSPI) is read as zero.

Level 2: no debug
When the readout protection level 2 is set:
–

The protection level 1 is guaranteed.

–

All debug features are disabled:
. if OEM2 key has not been provided, JTAG and SWD are definitively disabled.
. if OEM2 key has been provided under a lower RDP protection, JTAG and SWD
remain enabled under reset only to interface with DBGMCU_SR,
DBGMCU_DBG_AUTH_HOST and DBGMCU_DBG_AUTH_DEVICE registers to
obtain device identification and provide OEM2 key to request RDP regression.

Note:

–

The boot from SRAM (boot RAM mode) and the boot from system memory
(bootloader mode) are no longer available.

–

Only boot from main flash memory is possible; all operations are allowed on the
flash main memory. Read, erase and program accesses to the flash memory and
SRAMs from user code are allowed.

–

Option bytes cannot be programmed nor erased except the SWAP_BANK option
bit. Thus, the level 2 cannot be removed: it is an irreversible operation unless
an OEM2 key has been provisioned (refer to OEM2 RDP lock mechanism).

The debug feature is also disabled under reset.
STMicroelectronics is not able to perform analysis on defective parts on which the level 2
protection has been set. Regress parts to RDP level 1 before returning them for analysis
(refer to OEM2 RDP lock mechanism).

RM0456 Rev 6