3086

FD controller area network (FDCAN)

RM0456

FDCAN data phase, the fast CAN bit timing is used as defined by the FDCAN_DBTP
register. The bit timing is switched back from the fast timing at the CRC delimiter or when an
error is detected, whichever occurs first.
The maximum configurable bit rate in the CAN FD data phase depends on the FDCAN
kernel clock frequency. For example, with an FDCAN kernel clock frequency of 20 MHz and
the shortest configurable bit time of four time quanta (tq), the bit rate in the data phase is
5 Mbit/s.
In both data frame formats (CAN FD long frames and CAN FD fast frames), the value of bit
ESI (error status indicator) is determined by the transmitter error state at the start of the
transmission. If the transmitter is error passive, ESI is transmitted recessive, else it is
transmitted dominant. In CAN FD remote frames, the ESI bit is always transmitted
dominant, independent of the transmitter error state. The data length code of CAN FD
remote frames is transmitted as 0.
In case an FDCAN Tx buffer is configured for FDCAN transmission with DLC > 8, the first
eight bytes are transmitted as configured in the Tx buffer while the remaining part of the
data field is padded with 0xCC. When the FDCAN receives a FDCAN frame with DLC > 8,
the first eight bytes of that frame are stored into the matching Rx FIFO. The remaining bytes
are discarded.

Transceiver delay compensation
During the data phase of an FDCAN transmission, only one node is transmitting, all others
are receivers. The length of the bus line has no impact. When transmitting via pin
FDCAN_TX, the protocol controller receives the transmitted data from its local CAN
transceiver via pin FDCAN_RX. The received data is delayed by the CAN transceiver loop
delay. If this delay is greater than TSEG1 (time segment before sample point), and a bit
error is detected. Without transceiver delay compensation, the bit rate in the data phase of
an FDCAN frame is limited by the transceiver loop delay.
The FDCAN implements a delay compensation mechanism to compensate the CAN
transceiver loop delay, thereby enabling transmission with higher bit rates during the
FDCAN data phase independent of the delay of a specific CAN transceiver.
To check for bit errors during the data phase of transmitting nodes, the delayed transmit
data is compared against the received data at the secondary sample point (SSP). If a bit
error is detected, the transmitter reacts on this bit error at the next following regular sample
point. During the arbitration phase, the delay compensation is always disabled.
The transmitter delay compensation enables configurations where the data bit time is
shorter than the transmitter delay. This is enabled by setting the TDC bit of the
FDCAN_DBTP register, and described in detail in the ISO11898-1 specification.
The received bit is compared against the transmitted bit at the SSP. The SSP position is
defined as the sum of the measured delay from the FDCAN transmit output pin FDCAN_TX
through the transceiver to the receive input pin FDCAN_RX plus the transmitter delay
compensation offset as configured by TDCO[6:0] of FDCAN_TDCR. The transmitter delay
compensation offset is used to adjust the position of the SSP inside the received bit (for
example, half of the bit time in the data phase). The position of the secondary sample point
is rounded down to the next integer number of mtq (minimum time quantum, one period of
fdcan_tq_ck clock).
The TDCV[6:0] bitfield of the FDCAN_PSR register shows the actual transmitter delay
compensation value. TDCV[6:0] is cleared when the INIT is set in the FDCAN_CCCR. It is