2952

Serial peripheral interface (SPI)
e)

68.4.11

RM0456

Once the AFCNTR bit is set in the SPI_CFG2 register, all the SPI outputs start to
be propagated onto the associated GPIO pins regardless of the peripheral enable.
So, any later configuration changes of the SPI_CFG1 and SPI_CFG2 registers
can affect the level of signals on these pins.

3.

Write to the SPI_CR2 register to select the length of the transfer, if it is not known
TSIZE must be programmed to zero.

4.

Write to the SPI_CRCPOLY and into the TCRCINI, RCRCINI, and CRC33_17 bits of
the SPI_CR1 register to configure the CRC polynomial and CRC calculation if needed.

5.

Configure DMA streams dedicated for the SPI Tx and Rx in DMA registers if the DMA
streams are used (see Section 68.4.14: Communication using DMA (direct memory
addressing)).

6.

Configure SSI, HDDIR, and MASRX in the SPI_CR1 register if required.

7.

Program the IOLOCK bit in the SPI_CR1 register if the configuration protection is
required (for safety).

Enabling the SPI
It is recommended to configure and enable the SPI slave before the master sends the clock.
But there is no impact if the configuration and enabling procedure is done while traffic is
ongoing on the bus, assuming that the SS signal is managed by hardware at slave or kept
inactive by the slave software when the software management of the SS signal is applied
(see Section 68.4.7). To prevent any risk of any data underrun, all the data to be sent have
to be written to the slave transmitter data register before the master starts its clocking. The
SCK signal must be settled to the idle state level corresponding to the selected polarity,
before the SPI slave is selected by SS, else the following transfer may be desynchronized.
When the SPI slave is enabled at the hardware SS management mode, all the transfers are
ignored even in case of the SS is found at active level. They are ignored until the slave
detects a start of the SS signal (its transition from nonactive to active level) just
synchronizing the slave with the master. That is why the hardware management mode
cannot be used when the external SS pin is fixed. There is no such protection at the SS
software management. In this case, the SSI bit must be changed when there is no traffic on
the bus and the SCK signal is at idle state level between transfers exclusively in this case.
The master in full duplex (or in any transmit-only mode) starts to communicate when the SPI
is enabled, the CSTART bit is set, and the TxFIFO is not empty, or with the next write to
TxFIFO.
In any master receive-only mode, the master starts to communicate and the clock starts
running after the SPI is enabled and the CSTART bit is set.
For handling DMA, see Section 68.4.14.