RM0456 Rev 6

RM0456

8.4.12

Instruction cache (ICACHE)

ICACHE performance monitoring
The ICACHE provides the following monitors for performance analysis:
•

The 32-bit hit monitor counts the cacheable AHB-transactions on the slave cache port
that hits the ICACHE content.
It also takes into account all accesses whose address is present in the TAG memory
or in the refill buffer (due to a previous miss, and whose data is coming, or is soon to
come, from the cache master port) (see Section 8.4.8).

•

The 16-bit miss monitor counts the cacheable AHB-transactions on the slave cache
port that misses the ICACHE content.
It also takes into account all accesses whose address is not present neither in
the TAG memory nor in the refill buffer.

Upon reaching their maximum values, these monitors do not wrap over.
Hit and miss monitors can be enabled and reset by software allowing the analysis of specific
pieces of code.
The software can perform the following tasks:
•

Enable/stop the hit monitor through HITMEN in ICACHE_CR.

•

Reset the hit monitor by setting HITMRST in ICACHE_CR.

•

Enable/stop the miss monitor through MISSMEN in ICACHE_CR.

•

Reset the miss monitor by setting MISSMRST in ICACHE_CR.

To reduce power consumption, these monitors are disabled (stopped) by default.

8.4.13

ICACHE boot
The ICACHE is disabled (EN = 0 in ICACHE_CR) at boot.
The code remapping at boot is not needed for a Cortex®-M33 since it implements the VTOR
(vector tables) that allows a boot start address definition different than 0x0.
Once the boot is finished, the ICACHE can be enabled (software setting EN = 1
in CACHE_CR).

8.5

ICACHE low-power modes
At device level, using the ICACHE reduces the power consumption by fetching instructions
from the internal ICACHE most of the time, rather than from the bigger and then more power
consuming main memories. This reduction is even higher if the cached main memories are
external.
Applications with lower performance profile (in terms of hit ratio) and stringent power
consumption constraints may benefit from the lower power consumption of an ICACHE
configured as direct mapped. This single-way cache configuration is obtained by
programming WAYSEL = 0 in ICACHE_CR (see Figure 28). The power consumption is
reduced by accessing, for each request, only the necessary cut of TAG and data memories.
The cache effect still improves fetch performance, even if for most code execution, it is less
efficient than with an n-way set associative cache mode.

RM0456 Rev 6