1377

Analog-to-digital converter (ADC12)

RM0456

Bit 25 JAUTO: Automatic injected group conversion
This bit is set and cleared by software to enable/disable automatic injected group conversion after
regular group conversion.
0: Automatic injected group conversion disabled
1: Automatic injected group conversion enabled
Note: The software is allowed to write this bit only when ADSTART = 0 and JADSTART = 0 (which
ensures that no regular nor injected conversion is ongoing).
Bit 24 JAWD1EN: Analog watchdog 1 enable on injected channels
This bit is set and cleared by software
0: Analog watchdog 1 disabled on injected channels
1: Analog watchdog 1 enabled on injected channels
Note: The software is allowed to write this bit only when JADSTART = 0 (which ensures that no
injected conversion is ongoing).
Bit 23 AWD1EN: Analog watchdog 1 enable on regular channels
This bit is set and cleared by software
0: Analog watchdog 1 disabled on regular channels
1: Analog watchdog 1 enabled on regular channels
Note: The software is allowed to write this bit only when ADSTART = 0 (which ensures that no regular
conversion is ongoing).
Bit 22 AWD1SGL: Enable the watchdog 1 on a single channel or on all channels
This bit is set and cleared by software to enable the analog watchdog on the channel identified by
the AWD1CH[4:0] bits or on all the channels
0: Analog watchdog 1 enabled on all channels
1: Analog watchdog 1 enabled on a single channel
Note: The software is allowed to write these bits only when ADSTART = 0 and JADSTART = 0 (which
ensures that no conversion is ongoing).
Bit 21 Reserved, must be kept at reset value.
Bit 20 JDISCEN: Discontinuous mode on injected channels
This bit is set and cleared by software to enable/disable discontinuous mode on the injected
channels of a group.
0: Discontinuous mode on injected channels disabled
1: Discontinuous mode on injected channels enabled
Note: The software is allowed to write this bit only when JADSTART = 0 (which ensures that no
injected conversion is ongoing).
It is not possible to use both auto-injected mode and discontinuous mode simultaneously: the
bits DISCEN and JDISCEN must be kept cleared by software when JAUTO is set.
Bits 19:17 DISCNUM[2:0]: Discontinuous mode channel count
These bits are written by software to define the number of regular channels to be converted in
discontinuous mode, after receiving an external trigger.
000: 1 channel
001: 2 channels
...
111: 8 channels
Note: The software is allowed to write these bits only when ADSTART = 0 (which ensures that no
regular conversion is ongoing).