821

Low-power direct memory access controller (LPDMA)

RM0456

A given LPDMA channel x asserts its clock request in one of the following conditions:
•

if the next transfer to be executed is programmed as conditioned by a trigger
(LPDMA_CxTR2.TRIGPOL[1:0] and LPDMA_CxTR2.TRIGM[1:0]), only when the
trigger hit occurs.

•

if the next transfer to be executed is not conditioned by a trigger:
–

if LPDMA_CxTR2.SWREQ = 0, only when the hardware request is asserted by
the selected peripheral

–

if LPDMA_CxTR2.SWREQ = 1 (memory-to-memory, GPIO to/from memory), as
soon as the GPDMA is enabled

The LPDMA channel x releases its clock request as soon as all the following conditions are
met:
•

The transfer to be executed is completed.

•

The LPDMA channel x is not immediately ready and requested to execute the next
transfer.

•

If a channel x interrupt was raised, all the flags of the status register that can cause this
interrupt, are cleared by a software agent.

When one channel asserts its clock request, the LPDMA asserts its clock request to the
RCC. When none channel asserts its clock request, the LPDMA releases its clock request
to the RCC.

18.5

LPDMA in debug mode
When the microcontroller enters debug mode (core halted), any channel x can be
individually either continued (default) or suspended, depending on the programmable
control bit in the DBGMCU module.

Note:

In debug mode, LPDMA_CxSR.SUSPF is not altered by a suspension from the
programmable control bit in the DBGMCU module. In this case, LPDMA_CxSR.IDLEF can
be checked to know the completion status of the channel suspension.

18.6

LPDMA in low-power modes
Table 154. Effect of low-power modes on LPDMA

Mode

Description

Sleep

No effect. LPDMA interrupts cause the device to exit Sleep mode.

Stop(1)

The content of the LPDMA registers is kept when entering Stop mode. The content of the LPDMA
registers can be autonomously updated by a next linked-list item from memory, to perform
autonomous data transfers. LPDMA interrupts can cause the device to exit Stop mode.

Standby

The LPDMA is powered down and must be reinitialized after exiting Standby mode.

1. Refer to Section 18.3.2 to know which Stop mode is supported.