1177

Hexadeca-SPI interface (HSPI)

RM0456

If APMS is set in HSPI_CR, the operation stops and BUSY goes to 0 as soon as a match is
detected. Otherwise, BUSY stays at 1 and the periodic accesses continue until there is an
abort or until the HSPI is disabled (EN = 0).
HSPI_DR contains the latest received status bytes (FIFO deactivated). The content of this
register is not affected by the masking used in the matching logic. FTF in HSPI_SR is set as
soon as a new reading of the status is complete. FTF is cleared as soon as the data is read.
In automatic status-polling mode, variable latency is not supported. As a consequence, the
memory must be configured in fixed latency.

30.4.11

HSPI memory-mapped mode
When configured in memory-mapped mode, the external SPI device is seen as an internal
memory.

Note:

No more than 256 Mbytes can be addressed even if the external device capacity is larger.
If an access is made to an address outside of the range defined by DEVSIZE[4:0] but still
within the 256-Mbyte range, then an AHB error is given. The effect of this error depends on
the AHB master that attempted the access:
•

If it is the Cortex CPU, a hard-fault interrupt is generated.

•

If it is a DMA, a DMA transfer error is generated, and the corresponding DMA channel
is automatically disabled.

Byte, half-word, and word access types are all supported.
A support for execute in place (XIP) operation is implemented, where the HSPI continues to
load the bytes to the addresses following the most recent access. If subsequent accesses
are continuous to the bytes that follow, then these operations end up quickly since their
results were prefetched.
By default, the HSPI never stops its prefetch operation, it either keeps the previous read
operation active with the NCS maintained low or it relaunches a new transfer, even if no
access to the external device occurs for a long time.
Since external devices tend to consume more power when the NCS is held low, the
application may want to activate the timeout counter (TCEN = 1 in HSPI_CR): the NCS is
released after a period defined by TIMEOUT[15:0] in HSPI_LPTR, when x cycles have
elapsed without an access since the clock is inactive.
BUSY goes high as soon as the first memory-mapped access occurs. Because of the
prefetch operations, BUSY does not fall until there is an abort, or the peripheral is disabled.
It is not recommended to program the flash memory using the memory-mapped writes. The
indirect-write mode fulfills this operation.
However, if the application requires the use of the MCE for encryption (check MCE product
availability), the memory-mapped write mode may be used to program encrypted data to
external flash memory under the following conditions: