1104

Octo-SPI interface (OCTOSPI)

RM0456

Dual-quad configuration
When DMM = 1 in OCTOSPI_CR, the OCTOSPI is in dual-memory configuration: if
DMODE = 011, two external Quad-SPI devices (device A and device B) are used in order to
send/receive eight bits (or 16 bits in DTR mode) every cycle, effectively doubling the
throughput.
Each device (A or B) uses the same CLK and NCS signals, but each has separate IO0 to
IO3 signals.
The dual-quad configuration can be used in conjunction with the single-SPI, dual-SPI, and
quad-SPI modes, as well as with either the SDR or DTR mode.
The device size, as specified by DEVSIZE[4:0] in OCTOSPI_DCR1, must reflect the total
external device capacity that is the double of the size of one individual component.
If address X is even, then the byte that the OCTOSPI gives for address X is the byte at the
address X/2 of device A, and the byte that the OCTOSPI gives for address X + 1 is the byte
at the address X/2 of device B. In other words, the bytes at even addresses are all stored in
device A and the bytes at odd addresses are all stored in device B.
When reading the status registers of the devices in dual-quad configuration, twice as many
bytes must be read compared to the same read in regular-command protocol: if each device
gives eight valid bits after the instruction for fetching the status register, then the OCTOSPI
must be configured with a data length of 2 bytes (16 bits), and the OCTOSPI receives one
byte from each device.
If each device gives a status of 16 bits, then the OCTOSPI must be configured to read
4 bytes to get all the status bits of both devices in dual-quad configuration. The
least-significant byte of the result (in the data register) is the least-significant byte of device
A status register. The next byte is the least-significant byte of device B status register. Then,
the third byte of the data register is the device A second byte. The fourth byte is the device
B second byte (if devices have 16-bit status registers).
An even number of bytes must always be accessed in dual-quad configuration. For this
reason, bit 0 of DL[31:0] in OCTOSPI_DLR is stuck at 1 when DMM = 1.
In dual-quad configuration, the behavior of device A interface signals is basically the same
as in normal mode. Device B interface signals have exactly the same waveforms as
device A ones during the instruction, address, alternate-byte, and dummy-cycle phases. In
other words, each device always receives the same instruction and the same address.
Then, during the data phase, the AIOx and the BIOx buses both transfer data in parallel, but
the data that is sent to (or received from) device A is distinct than the one from device B.

28.4.6

HyperBus protocol
The OCTOSPI can communicate with the external device using the HyperBus protocol.
The HyperBus uses 11 to 12 pins depending on the operating voltage: