RM0456 Rev 6

RM0456

Analog-to-digital converter (ADC12)

Bit 16 DISCEN: Discontinuous mode for regular channels
This bit is set and cleared by software to enable/disable discontinuous mode for regular channels.
0: Discontinuous mode for regular channels disabled
1: Discontinuous mode for regular channels enabled
Note: It is not possible to have both discontinuous mode and continuous mode enabled: it is forbidden
to set both DISCEN = 1 and CONT = 1.
It is not possible to use both auto-injected mode and discontinuous mode simultaneously: the
bits DISCEN and JDISCEN must be kept cleared by software when JAUTO is set.
The software is allowed to write this bit only when ADSTART = 0 (which ensures that no regular
conversion is ongoing).
Bit 15 Reserved, must be kept at reset value.
Bit 14 AUTDLY: Delayed conversion mode
This bit is set and cleared by software to enable/disable the auto-delayed conversion mode..
0: Auto-delayed conversion mode off
1: Auto-delayed conversion mode on
Note: The software is allowed to write this bit only when ADSTART = 0 and JADSTART = 0 (which
ensures that no conversion is ongoing).
Bit 13 CONT: Single / continuous conversion mode for regular conversions
This bit is set and cleared by software. If it is set, regular conversion takes place continuously until it
is cleared.
0: Single conversion mode
1: Continuous conversion mode
Note: It is not possible to have both discontinuous mode and continuous mode enabled: it is forbidden
to set both DISCEN = 1 and CONT = 1.
The software is allowed to write this bit only when ADSTART = 0 (which ensures that no regular
conversion is ongoing).
Bit 12 OVRMOD: Overrun Mode
This bit is set and cleared by software and configure the way data overrun is managed.
0: ADC_DR register is preserved with the old data when an overrun is detected.
1: ADC_DR register is overwritten with the last conversion result when an overrun is detected.
Note: The software is allowed to write this bit only when ADSTART = 0 (which ensures that no regular
conversion is ongoing).
Bits 11:10 EXTEN[1:0]: External trigger enable and polarity selection for regular channels
These bits are set and cleared by software to select the external trigger polarity and enable the
trigger of a regular group.
00: Hardware trigger detection disabled (conversions can be launched by software)
01: Hardware trigger detection on the rising edge
10: Hardware trigger detection on the falling edge
11: Hardware trigger detection on both the rising and falling edges
Note: The software is allowed to write these bits only when ADSTART = 0 (which ensures that no
regular conversion is ongoing).

RM0456 Rev 6