RM0456 Rev 6

RM0456

Advanced-control timers (TIM1/TIM8)
autoreload value down to 1 and generates a counter underflow event. Then it restarts
counting from 0.
Center-aligned mode is active when the CMS bits in TIMx_CR1 register are not equal to 00.
The Output compare interrupt flag of channels configured in output is set when: the counter
counts down (Center aligned mode 1, CMS = 01), the counter counts up (Center aligned
mode 2, CMS = 10) the counter counts up and down (Center aligned mode 3, CMS = 11).
In this mode, the DIR direction bit in the TIMx_CR1 register cannot be written. It is updated
by hardware and gives the current direction of the counter.
The update event can be generated at each counter overflow and at each counter underflow
or by setting the UG bit in the TIMx_EGR register (by software or by using the slave mode
controller) also generates an update event. In this case, the counter restarts counting from
0, as well as the counter of the prescaler.
The UEV update event can be disabled by software by setting the UDIS bit in the TIMx_CR1
register. This is to avoid updating the shadow registers while writing new values in the
preload registers. Then no update event occurs until UDIS bit has been written to 0.
However, the counter continues counting up and down, based on the current autoreload
value.
In addition, if the URS bit (update request selection) in TIMx_CR1 register is set, setting the
UG bit generates an UEV update event but without setting the UIF flag (thus no interrupt or
DMA request is sent). This is to avoid generating both update and capture interrupts when
clearing the counter on the capture event.
When an update event occurs, all the registers are updated and the update flag (UIF bit in
TIMx_SR register) is set (depending on the URS bit):
•

The repetition counter is reloaded with the content of TIMx_RCR register

•

The buffer of the prescaler is reloaded with the preload value (content of the TIMx_PSC
register)

•

The autoreload active register is updated with the preload value (content of the
TIMx_ARR register). Note that if the update source is a counter overflow, the
autoreload is updated before the counter is reloaded, so that the next period is the
expected one (the counter is loaded with the new value).

The following figures show some examples of the counter behavior for different clock
frequencies.

RM0456 Rev 6