363

Embedded flash memory (FLASH)
Caution:

RM0456

Switching a page or memory block from secure to nonsecure does not erase the content of
the associated block. User secure software must perform the following needed operations
before switching a block to nonsecure attribute:
•

Erase page content,

•

Invalidate the instruction cache.

Note:

For SECyBBRx bit i access control, refer to Table 75.

7.5.5

Flash security attribute state
The flash memory is secure when at least one secure area is defined either by watermarkbased option bytes or block-based security registers.
It is possible to override the flash security state using the INV bit in the FLASH_SECCR
register.
The FLASHEN and FLASHSMEN bits security attributes in RCC follow the flash memory
security attribute. It is possible to override the flash memory security attribute in RCC using
the INV bit in the FLASH_SECCR register. A secure firmware setting this INV bit allows a
nonsecure firmware to disable the flash memory clock when the flash memory is in power
down or when the MCU enters low-power modes.
Table 62. Flash security state
Secure area
None

Yes

7.5.6

INV bit

Flash security state

0

Nonsecure

1

Secure

0

Secure

1

Nonsecure

Block-based privileged flash memory area protection
Any page can be programmed on the fly as privileged or unprivileged using the block-based
configuration registers. FLASH_PRIVBB1Rx (resp. FLASH_PRIVBB2Rx) registers are used
to configure the privilege attribute for pages in bank 1 (resp. bank 2).
When the page privilege attribute, bit i in PRIVyBBRx, is set, the page is only accessible by
a privileged access. An unprivileged page is accessible by a privileged or unprivileged
access.
To modify a block-based privilege attribution, the following actions are recommended:
•

Check that no flash operation is ongoing on the related page.

•

Add an ISB instruction after modifying the page security attribute bit i in PRIVyBBRx.

Caution:

Switching a page or memory block from privileged to unprivileged does not erase the
content of the associated block.

Note:

For PRIVyBBRx bit i access control, refer to Table 76 and Table 77.