RM0456 Rev 6

RM0456

69.4.3

Serial audio interface (SAI)

Main SAI modes
Each audio subblock of the SAI can be configured to be master or slave via the MODE bits
in the SAI_xCR1 register of the selected audio block.

Master mode
In master mode, the SAI delivers the timing signals to the external connected device:
•

The bit clock and the frame synchronization are output on pin SCK_x and FS_x,
respectively.

•

If needed, the SAI can also generate a master clock on the MCLK_x pin.

Both SCK_x, FS_x and MCLK_x are configured as outputs.

Slave mode
The SAI expects to receive timing signals from an external device.
•

If the SAI subblock is configured in asynchronous mode, then the SCK_x and FS_x
pins are configured as inputs.

•

If the SAI subblock is configured to operate synchronously with another SAI interface or
with the second audio subblock, the corresponding SCK_x and FS_x pins are left free
to be used as general purpose I/Os.

In slave mode, the MCLK_x pin is not used and can be assigned to another function.
It is recommended to enable the slave device before enabling the master.

Configuring and enabling SAI modes
Each audio block can use a different audio protocol. When PRTCFG[1:0] of the SAI_xCR1
register is set to 0, the free protocol mode is selected and each SAI subblock can emulate
I2S standards, LSB- or MSB-justified, PCM/DSP, TDM, or AC’97 protocols.
Each audio subblock can be independently defined as a transmitter or receiver through the
MODE bit in the SAI_xCR1 register of the corresponding audio block. As a result, the
SAI_SD_x pin is respectively configured as an output or an input.
Two master audio blocks in the same SAI can be configured with two different MCLK and
SCK clock frequencies. In this case, they have to be configured in asynchronous mode.
Each of the audio blocks in the SAI is enabled by the SAIEN bit in the SAI_xCR1 register. As
soon as this bit is active, the transmitter or the receiver is sensitive to the activity on the
clock, data, and synchronization lines in slave mode.
In master Tx mode, enabling the audio block immediately generates the bit clock for the
external slaves even if there is no data in the FIFO. However, FS signal generation is
conditioned by the presence of data in the FIFO. After the FIFO receives the first data to
transmit, this data is output to external slaves. If there is no data to transmit in the FIFO, 0
values are then sent in the audio frame with an underrun flag generation.
In slave mode, the audio frame starts when the audio block is enabled and when a start of
frame is detected.
In Slave Tx mode, no underrun event is possible on the first frame after the audio block is
enabled, because the mandatory operating sequence in this case is:

RM0456 Rev 6