Use cases:
–

Standard-A connector which always implies Host mode.

–

Micro connector, so ID present on connector, but ID pin not available in pinout, at
A-plug insertion (detected by another means, for example: GPIO).

–

A Type-C connector, when host functionality is determined at cable attachment or
via power delivery messages.

Note that the integrated pull-down resistors are set on the DP/DM lines by setting bit
FORCEHOSTPD.

On-chip 5 V VBUS generation is not supported. For this reason, a charge pump or, if 5 V are
available on the application board, a basic power switch must be added externally to drive

RM0456 Rev 6

RM0456

USB on-the-go high-speed (OTG_HS)
the 5 V VBUS line. The external charge pump can be driven by any GPIO output. This is
required for the OTG A-host, A-device and host-only configurations.
Figure 921. OTG_HS host-only connection
VDD
5V

GPIO + IRQ

STMPS2141STR
5 V Pwr
Current-limited
Overcurrent power distribution
switch(2)
VBUS
DM

OSC_IN

DP
VSS

OSC_OUT

USB Std-A connector

GPIO

EN

MSv36915V2

1. VDD range is between 2 V and 3.6 V.

73.7.1

USB host states
Host port power
On-chip 5 V VBUS generation is not supported. For this reason, a charge pump or, if 5 V are
available on the application board, a basic power switch, must be added externally to drive
the 5 V VBUS line. The external charge pump can be driven by any GPIO output or via an
I2C interface connected to an external PMIC (power management IC). When the application
decides to power on VBUS, it must also set the port power bit in the host port control and
status register (PPWR bit in OTG_HPRT).

VBUS valid
In Host mode, the VBUS sensing pin does not need to be connected to VBUS.
The charge pump overcurrent flag can also be used to prevent electrical damage. Connect
the overcurrent flag output from the charge pump to any GPIO input and configure it to
generate a port interrupt on the active level. The overcurrent ISR must promptly disable the
VBUS generation and clear the port power bit.

Host detection of a peripheral connection
USB peripherals or B-device are detected as soon as they are connected. The OTG_HS
core issues a host port interrupt triggered by the device connected bit in the host port control
and status (PCDET bit in OTG_HPRT).

Host detection of peripheral a disconnection
The peripheral disconnection event triggers the disconnect detected interrupt (DISCINT bit
in OTG_GINTSTS).

RM0456 Rev 6