RM0456 Rev 6

RM0456

USB on-the-go high-speed (OTG_HS)

Bit 27 LPMINT: LPM interrupt
In device mode, this interrupt is asserted when the device receives an LPM transaction and
responds with a non-ERRORed response.
In host mode, this interrupt is asserted when the device responds to an LPM transaction with
a non-ERRORed response or when the host core has completed LPM transactions for the
programmed number of times (RETRYCNT bit in OTG_GLPMCFG).
This field is valid only if the LPMEN bit in OTG_GLPMCFG is set to 1.
Bit 26 PTXFE: Periodic Tx FIFO empty
Asserted when the periodic transmit FIFO is either half or completely empty and there is
space for at least one entry to be written in the periodic request queue. The half or completely
empty status is determined by the periodic Tx FIFO empty level bit in the OTG_GAHBCFG
register (PTXFELVL bit in OTG_GAHBCFG).
Note: Only accessible in host mode.
Bit 25 HCINT: Host channels interrupt
The core sets this bit to indicate that an interrupt is pending on one of the channels of the
core (in host mode). The application must read the OTG_HAINT register to determine the
exact number of the channel on which the interrupt occurred, and then read the
corresponding OTG_HCINTx register to determine the exact cause of the interrupt. The
application must clear the appropriate status bit in the OTG_HCINTx register to clear this bit.
Note: Only accessible in host mode.
Bit 24 HPRTINT: Host port interrupt
The core sets this bit to indicate a change in port status of one of the OTG_HS controller
ports in host mode. The application must read the OTG_HPRT register to determine the
exact event that caused this interrupt. The application must clear the appropriate status bit in
the OTG_HPRT register to clear this bit.
Note: Only accessible in host mode.
Bit 23 RSTDET: Reset detected interrupt
In device mode, this interrupt is asserted when a reset is detected on the USB in partial
power-down mode when the device is in suspend.
Note: Only accessible in device mode.
Bit 22 DATAFSUSP: Data fetch suspended
This interrupt is valid only in DMA mode. This interrupt indicates that the core has stopped
fetching data for IN endpoints due to the unavailability of TxFIFO space or request queue
space. This interrupt is used by the application for an endpoint mismatch algorithm. For
example, after detecting an endpoint mismatch, the application:
–
Sets a global nonperiodic IN NAK handshake
–
Disables IN endpoints
–
Flushes the FIFO
–
Determines the token sequence from the IN token sequence learning queue
–
Re-enables the endpoints
Clears the global nonperiodic IN NAK handshake If the global nonperiodic IN NAK is cleared,
the core has not yet fetched data for the IN endpoint, and the IN token is received: the core
generates an “IN token received when FIFO empty” interrupt. The OTG then sends a NAK
response to the host. To avoid this scenario, the application can check the FetSusp interrupt
in OTG_GINTSTS, which ensures that the FIFO is full before clearing a global NAK
handshake. Alternatively, the application can mask the “IN token received when FIFO empty”
interrupt when clearing a global IN NAK handshake.
Bit 21 IPXFR: Incomplete periodic transfer
In host mode, the core sets this interrupt bit when there are incomplete periodic transactions
still pending, which are scheduled for the current frame.

RM0456 Rev 6