RM0456 Rev 6

RM0456

Power control (PWR)

Entering Stop 0 mode
The MCU enters the Stop 0 mode as described in Entering into a low-power mode, when the
SLEEPDEEP bit in the Cortex-M33 system control register is set (see Table 102 for details
on how to enter Stop 0 mode).
If the flash memory programming is ongoing, the Stop 0 mode entry is delayed until the
memory access is finished.
If an access to the APB domain is ongoing, the Stop 0 mode entry is delayed until the APB
access is finished.
In Stop 0 mode, the following features can be selected by programming the individual
control bits:
•

The independent watchdog (IWDG) is started by writing to its key register or by
hardware option. Once started, it cannot be stopped except by a reset
(see Section 61.4: IWDG functional description).

•

The real-time clock (RTC) and Tamper (TAMP) kernel clock enabled by RTCEN in
RCC_BDCR.

•

The internal RC oscillator LSI clock or LSI clock divided by 128, is configured by LSION
and LSIPREDIV bits in RCC_BDCR.

•

The external 32.768 kHz oscillator (LSE) is configured by LSEON bit in RCC_BDCR.

Several peripherals can be autonomous in Stop 0 mode and can add consumption if they
are enabled (see Section 10.7.2 for more details).
OPAMPs, COMPs, the PVM, and the PVD can be used in Stop 0 mode. If they are not
needed, they must be disabled by software to save their power consumptions.
The ADCx (x = 1, 4), the DAC1 (two channels), the temperature sensor and the VREFBUF
can consume power during Stop 0 mode, unless they are disabled before entering
this mode.

Exiting Stop 0 mode
The MCU exits Stop 0 mode as described in Exiting a low-power mode (see Table 102 for
details on how to exit Stop 0 mode).
When exiting Stop 0 mode by issuing an interrupt or a wake-up event, HSI16 is selected as
system clock if STOPWUCK is set in RCC_CFGR1. The MSIS oscillator is selected as
system clock if STOPWUCK is cleared. The MSIS selection allows a wake-up at higher
frequency (up to 24 MHz).
Several peripherals are autonomous in Stop mode, and can generate interrupts with
wake-up from Stop capability. All peripheral clocks must be enabled to allow a wake-up
from Stop interrupt (see Peripheral clock gating).
When exiting the Stop 0 mode, the MCU is in Run mode, range 4.

RM0456 Rev 6