1377

Analog-to-digital converter (ADC12)

RM0456

Managing a sequence of conversions without using the DMA
If the conversions are slow enough, the conversion sequence can be handled by the
software. In this case, the software must use the EOC flag and its associated interrupt to
handle each data. Each time a conversion is complete, EOC is set and the ADC_DR
register can be read. OVRMOD must be configured to 0 to manage overrun events as an
error.

Managing conversions without using the DMA and without overrun
It may be useful to let the ADC convert one or more channels without reading the data each
time (for example if the device features an analog watchdog). In this case, the OVRMOD bit
must be configured to 1 and the OVR flag must be ignored by the software. An overrun
event does not prevent the ADC from continuing to convert and the ADC_DR register
always contains the latest conversion.

Managing conversions using the DMA
Since converted channel values are stored in a unique data register, it is useful to use DMA
to convert more than one channel. This avoids the loss of the data already stored in the
ADC_DR register.
When the DMA mode is enabled (DMNGT[1:0] = 01 or 11 in the ADC_CFGR register in
single ADC mode or DAMDF different from 00 in dual ADC mode), a DMA request is
generated after each conversion of a channel. This allows the transfer of the converted data
from the ADC_DR register to the destination location selected by the software.
Despite this, if an overrun occurs (OVR = 1) because the DMA cannot serve the DMA
transfer request in time, the ADC stops generating DMA requests and the data
corresponding to the new conversion is not transferred by the DMA. This means that all the
data transferred to the RAM can be considered as valid.
Depending on the configuration of the OVRMOD bit, the data is either preserved or
overwritten.
The DMA transfer requests are blocked until the software clears the OVR bit.
Two different DMA modes are proposed depending on the application. They can be
configured through the DMNGT[1:0] bitfield of the ADC_CFGR1 register and the DAMDF bit
of the ADC12_CCR register, in single ADC mode and in dual ADC mode, respectively:
•

DMA one shot mode (DMNGT[1:0] = 01).
This mode is suitable when the DMA is programmed to transfer a fixed number of data.

•

DMA circular mode (DMNGT[1:0] = 11)
This mode is suitable when programming the DMA in circular mode.

DMA one shot mode (DMNGT[1:0] = 01)
In this mode, the ADC generates a DMA transfer request each time a new conversion data
is available and stops generating DMA requests once the DMA has reached the last DMA
transfer (when a transfer complete interrupt occurs - refer to DMA section) even if a
conversion has been started again.
When the DMA transfer is complete (all the transfers configured in the DMA controller have
been done):