2902

Universal synchronous/asynchronous receiver transmitter (USART/UART)

RM0456

Bit 3 TE: Transmitter enable
This bit enables the transmitter. When the autonomous mode is not used, TE bit is set and
cleared by software. When the autonomous mode is used, TE bit becomes a status bit, which
is set and cleared by hardware.
0: Transmitter is disabled
1: Transmitter is enabled
Note: When the USART acts as a transmitter, a low pulse on the TE bit (0 followed by 1)
sends a preamble (idle line) after the current word, except in smartcard mode. In order
to generate an idle character, the TE must not be immediately written to 1. To ensure the
required duration, the software can poll the TEACK bit in the USART_ISR register.
In smartcard mode, when TE is set, there is a 1 bit-time delay before the transmission
starts.
Bit 2 RE: Receiver enable
This bit enables the receiver. It is set and cleared by software.
0: Receiver is disabled
1: Receiver is enabled and begins searching for a start bit
Bit 1 UESM: USART enable in low-power mode
When this bit is cleared, the USART cannot request its kernel clock and is not functional in
low-power mode.
When this bit is set, the USART can wake up the MCU from low-power mode.
This bit is set and cleared by software.
0: USART not functional in low-power mode.
1: USART functional in low-power mode.
Note: The UESM bit must be set at the initialization phase.
If the USART does not support the wake-up from low-power mode, this bit is reserved
and must be kept at reset value. Refer to Section 66.4: USART implementation.
Bit 0 UE: USART enable
When this bit is cleared, the USART prescalers and outputs are stopped immediately, and all
current operations are discarded. The USART configuration is kept, but all the USART_ISR
status flags are reset. This bit is set and cleared by software.
0: USART prescaler and outputs disabled, low-power mode
1: USART enabled
Note: To enter low-power mode without generating errors on the line, the TE bit must be
previously reset and the software must wait for the TC bit in the USART_ISR to be set
before resetting the UE bit.
The DMA requests are also reset when UE = 0 so the DMA channel must be disabled
before resetting the UE bit.
In smartcard mode, (SCEN = 1), the CK is always available when CLKEN = 1,
regardless of the UE bit value.