1045

Flexible static memory controller (FSMC)

RM0456

Bit 20 CCLKEN: Continuous clock enable
This bit enables the FMC_CLK clock output to external memory devices.
0: The FMC_CLK is only generated during the synchronous memory access (read/write
transaction). The FMC_CLK clock ratio is specified by the programmed CLKDIV value in the
FMC_BCRx register (default after reset).
1: The FMC_CLK is generated continuously during asynchronous and synchronous access. The
FMC_CLK clock is activated when the CCLKEN is set.
Note: The CCLKEN bit of the FMC_BCR2..4 registers is don’t care. It is only enabled through the
FMC_BCR1 register. Bank 1 must be configured in Synchronous mode to generate the
FMC_CLK continuous clock.
Note: If CCLKEN bit is set, the FMC_CLK clock ratio is specified by CLKDIV value in the FMC_BTR1
register. CLKDIV in FMC_BWTR1 is don’t care.
Note: If the Synchronous mode is used and CCLKEN bit is set, the synchronous memories
connected to other banks than Bank 1 are clocked by the same clock (the CLKDIV value in the
FMC_BTR2..4 and FMC_BWTR2..4 registers for other banks has no effect.)
Bit 19 CBURSTRW: Write burst enable
For PSRAM (CRAM) operating in Burst mode, the bit enables synchronous accesses during write
operations. The enable bit for synchronous read accesses is the BURSTEN bit in the FMC_BCRx
register.
0: Write operations are always performed in Asynchronous mode.
1: Write operations are performed in Synchronous mode.
Bits 18:16 CPSIZE[2:0]: CRAM page size
These are used for CellularRAM™ 1.5 which does not allow burst access to cross the address
boundaries between pages. When these bits are configured, the FMC controller splits automatically
the burst access when the memory page size is reached (refer to memory datasheet for page size).
000: No burst split when crossing page boundary (default after reset)
001: 128 bytes
010: 256 bytes
011: 512 bytes
100: 1024 bytes
Others: Reserved, must not be used
Bit 15 ASYNCWAIT: Wait signal during asynchronous transfers
This bit enables/disables the FMC to use the wait signal even during an asynchronous protocol.
0: NWAIT signal is not taken in to account when running an asynchronous protocol (default after
reset).
1: NWAIT signal is taken in to account when running an asynchronous protocol.
Bit 14 EXTMOD: Extended mode enable
This bit enables the FMC to program the write timings for non multiplexed asynchronous accesses
inside the FMC_BWTR register, thus resulting in different timings for read and write operations.
0: values inside FMC_BWTR register are not taken into account (default after reset)
1: values inside FMC_BWTR register are taken into account
Note: When the Extended mode is disabled, the FMC can operate in mode 1 or mode 2 as follows:
–
Mode 1 is the default mode when the SRAM/PSRAM memory type is selected
(MTYP = 0x0 or 0x01)
–
Mode 2 is the default mode when the NOR memory type is selected (MTYP = 0x10).