2902

Universal synchronous/asynchronous receiver transmitter (USART/UART)

RM0456

Bit 11 ONEBIT: One sample bit method enable
This bit enables the user to select the sample method. When the one sample bit method is
selected the noise detection flag (NE) is disabled.
0: Three sample bit method
1: One sample bit method
This bit can only be written when the USART is disabled (UE = 0).
Bit 10 CTSIE: CTS interrupt enable
0: Interrupt is inhibited
1: An interrupt is generated whenever CTSIF = 1 in the USART_ISR register
Note: If the hardware flow control feature is not supported, this bit is reserved and must be
kept at reset value. Refer to Section 66.4: USART implementation.
Bit 9 CTSE: CTS enable
0: CTS hardware flow control disabled
1: CTS mode enabled, data is only transmitted when the CTS input is deasserted (tied to 0).
If the CTS input is asserted while data is being transmitted, then the transmission completes
before stopping. If data is written into the data register while CTS is asserted, the
transmission is postponed until CTS is deasserted.
This bit can only be written when the USART is disabled (UE = 0)
Note: If the hardware flow control feature is not supported, this bit is reserved and must be
kept at reset value. Refer to Section 66.4: USART implementation.
Bit 8 RTSE: RTS enable
0: RTS hardware flow control disabled
1: RTS output enabled, data is only requested when there is space in the receive buffer. The
transmission of data is expected to cease after the current character has been transmitted.
The RTS output is deasserted (pulled to 0) when data can be received.
This bit can only be written when the USART is disabled (UE = 0).
Note: If the hardware flow control feature is not supported, this bit is reserved and must be
kept at reset value. Refer to Section 66.4: USART implementation.
Bit 7 DMAT: DMA enable transmitter
This bit is set/reset by software
1: DMA mode is enabled for transmission
0: DMA mode is disabled for transmission
Bit 6 DMAR: DMA enable receiver
This bit is set/reset by software
1: DMA mode is enabled for reception
0: DMA mode is disabled for reception
Bit 5 SCEN: Smartcard mode enable
This bit is used for enabling smartcard mode.
0: Smartcard mode disabled
1: Smartcard mode enabled
This bitfield can only be written when the USART is disabled (UE = 0).
Note: If the USART does not support smartcard mode, this bit is reserved and must be kept
at reset value. Refer to Section 66.4: USART implementation.
Bit 4 NACK: Smartcard NACK enable
0: NACK transmission in case of parity error is disabled
1: NACK transmission during parity error is enabled
This bitfield can only be written when the USART is disabled (UE = 0).
Note: If the USART does not support smartcard mode, this bit is reserved and must be kept
at reset value. Refer to Section 66.4: USART implementation.