Description

Sleep

No effect. IWDG interrupts cause the device to exit from the mode.

Stop

The IWDG remains active or not, depending on option bytes configuration.
Refer to Section 61.3 for details.
IWDG interrupts cause the device exit the Stop mode.

Standby

The IWDG remains active or not, depending on option bytes configuration.
Refer to Section 61.3 for details.
IWDG interrupts do not make the device to exit from Standby mode.

Shutdown

The IWDG is not working.

RM0456 Rev 6

RM0456

61.6

Independent watchdog (IWDG)

IWDG interrupts
The IWDG offers the possibility to generate an early interrupt depending on the value of the
down-counter. The early interrupt is enabled by setting the EWIE bit of the IWDG early
wake-up interrupt register (IWDG_EWCR) to 1.
A comparator value (EWIT[11:0]) allows the application to define the position where the
early interrupt must be generated.
When the IWDCNT down-counter reaches the value of EWIT[11:0] - 1, the iwdg_wkup is
activated, making it possible for the system to exit from low power modes, if needed.
When the APB clock is available, the iwdg_it is activated as well.
In addition, the flag EWIF of the IWDG status register (IWDG_SR) is set to 1.
The EWI interrupt is acknowledged by writing 1 to the EWIC bit in the IWDG early wake-up
interrupt register (IWDG_EWCR).
Writing into the IWDG_EWCR register also triggers a refresh of the down-counter
(IWDCNT) with the reload value RL[11:0].
Figure 770. Independent watchdog interrupt timing diagram

IWDCNT value
IWDCNT = EWIT - 1
EWIT[11:0]

Writing
EWIC to ‘1’

Time

APB write accesses
iwdg_wkup_it
pclk active

pclk
iwdg_it

MS49976V1

The early wake-up interrupt (EWI) can be used if specific safety operations or data logging
must be performed before the watchdog reset is generated.

Changing the early wake-up comparator value
It is possible to change the early wake-up comparator value or to enable/disable the
interrupt generation at any time, by performing the following sequence:
1.

Enable register access by writing 0x0000 5555 in the IWDG key register (IWDG_KR).

RM0456 Rev 6