1377

Analog-to-digital converter (ADC12)

RM0456

Gain compensation
When the GCOMP bit is set in the ADC_CFGR2 register, the gain compensation is activated
on all converted data. After each conversion, data is calculated using the following formula.
DATA = DATA ( adc result ) × ( GCOMPCOEFF ) ⁄ 4096
As GCOMPCOEFF can be programmed from 0 to 16383, the actual gain compensation
factor can range from 0 to 3.999756.
Before storing the resulting data in the RDATA or JDATAx registers, the LSB−1 value is
evaluated to round up the data and minimize the error.
The gain compensation is also effective for the oversampling. When the gain compensation
is used for the oversampling mode, the gain calculation is performed after the accumulation
and right-shift operations to minimize the power consumption (the gain calculation is done
only once instead of at each conversion). The internal multiplier width is 32 bits and the
input data width for the gain compensation must be less than 18 bits. When using
oversampling with injected and regular conversion mode the bit ADC_CFGR2.ROVSM bit
must be set to resume the pending conversion with the correct value.

ADC overrun (OVRMOD)
The overrun flag (OVR) notifies of that a buffer overrun event occurred when the regular
converted data has not been read (by the CPU or the DMA) before ADC_DR FIFO (eight
stages) is overflowed.
The OVR flag is set when a new conversion completes while the ADC_CR register FIFO
was full. An interrupt is generated if the OVRIE bit is set.
When an overrun event occurs, the ADC is still operating and can continue converting
unless the software decides to stop and reset the sequence by setting the ADSTP bit.
OVR flag is cleared by software by writing 1 to it.
Data can be configured to be preserved or overwritten when an overrun event occurs by
programming the OVRMOD control bit of the ADC_CFGR1 register:
•

OVRMOD = 0
The overrun event preserves the data register from being overwritten: the old data is
maintained up to ADC_DR FIFO depth (eight data) and the new conversion is
discarded and lost. If OVR remains at 1, further conversions occur but the result data
are also discarded.

•

OVRMOD = 1
The data register is overwritten with the last conversion result and the previous unread
data is lost. In this mode, ADC_DR FIFO is disabled. If OVR remains at 1, further
conversions operate normally and the ADC_DR register always contains the latest
converted data.