RM0456 Rev 6

RM0456

Inter-integrated circuit interface (I2C)

Timeout error (TIMEOUT)
A timeout error occurs for any of these conditions:
•

TIDLE = 0 and SCL remains low for the time defined in the TIMEOUTA[11:0] bitfield:
this is used to detect an SMBus timeout.

•

TIDLE = 1 and both SDA and SCL remains high for the time defined in the TIMEOUTA
[11:0] bitfield: this is used to detect a bus idle condition.

•

Controller cumulative clock low extend time reaches the time defined in the
TIMEOUTB[11:0] bitfield (SMBus tLOW:MEXT parameter).

•

Target cumulative clock low extend time reaches the time defined in the
TIMEOUTB[11:0] bitfield (SMBus tLOW:SEXT parameter).

When a timeout violation is detected in controller mode, a STOP condition is automatically
sent.
When a timeout violation is detected in target mode, the SDA and SCL lines are
automatically released.
When a timeout error is detected, the TIMEOUT flag is set in the I2C_ISR register and an
interrupt is generated if the ERRIE bit of the I2C_CR1 register is set.

Alert (ALERT)
The ALERT flag is set when the I2C peripheral is configured as a host (SMBHEN = 1), the
SMBALERT# signal detection is enabled (ALERTEN = 1), and a falling edge is detected on
the SMBA pin. An interrupt is generated if the ERRIE bit of the I2C_CR1 register is set.

65.5

I2C in low-power modes
Table 670. Effect of low-power modes to I2C
Mode

Description

Sleep

No effect. I2C interrupts cause the device to exit the Sleep mode.

Stop(1)

The contents of I2C registers are kept. If the autonomous mode is enabled and
I2C is clocked by an internal oscillator available in Stop mode: transfers in
controller and in target modes are functional. DMA requests are functional, and
the interrupts cause the device to exit the Stop mode. If WUPEN = 0: the I2C must
be disabled before entering Stop mode.

Standby

The I2C peripheral is powered down. It must be reinitialized after exiting Standby
mode.

1. Refer to Section 65.3: I2C implementation for information about the Stop modes supported by each
instance. If the wake-up from a specific Stop mode is not supported, the instance must be disabled before
entering that specific Stop mode.

RM0456 Rev 6