RM0456 Rev 6

RM0456

USB on-the-go full-speed (OTG_FS)
generate a port interrupt on the active level. The overcurrent ISR must promptly disable the
VBUS generation and clear the port power bit.

Host detection of a peripheral connection
If SRP or HNP are enabled, even if USB peripherals or B-devices can be attached at any
time, the OTG_FS does not detect any bus connection until VBUS is no longer sensed at a
valid level (5 V). When VBUS is at a valid level and a remote B-device is attached, the
OTG_FS core issues a host port interrupt triggered by the device connected bit in the host
port control and status register (PCDET bit in OTG_HPRT).
When HNP and SRP are both disabled, USB peripherals or B-device are detected as soon
as they are connected. The OTG_FS core issues a host port interrupt triggered by the
device connected bit in the host port control and status (PCDET bit in OTG_HPRT).

Host detection of peripheral a disconnection
The peripheral disconnection event triggers the disconnect detected interrupt (DISCINT bit
in OTG_GINTSTS).

Host enumeration
After detecting a peripheral connection the host must start the enumeration process by
sending USB reset and configuration commands to the new peripheral.
Before starting to drive a USB reset, the application waits for the OTG interrupt triggered by
the debounce done bit (DBCDNE bit in OTG_GOTGINT), which indicates that the bus is
stable again after the electrical debounce caused by the attachment of a pull-up resistor on
DP (FS) or DM (LS).
The application drives a USB reset signaling (single-ended zero) over the USB by keeping
the port reset bit set in the host port control and status register (PRST bit in OTG_HPRT) for
a minimum of 10 ms and a maximum of 20 ms. The application takes care of the timing
count and then of clearing the port reset bit.
Once the USB reset sequence has completed, the host port interrupt is triggered by the port
enable/disable change bit (PENCHNG bit in OTG_HPRT). This informs the application that
the speed of the enumerated peripheral can be read from the port speed field in the host
port control and status register (PSPD bit in OTG_HPRT) and that the host is starting to
drive SOFs (FS) or Keep alives (LS). The host is now ready to complete the peripheral
enumeration by sending peripheral configuration commands.

Host suspend
The application decides to suspend the USB activity by setting the port suspend bit in the
host port control and status register (PSUSP bit in OTG_HPRT). The OTG_FS core stops
sending SOFs and enters the suspended state.
The suspended state can be optionally exited on the remote device’s initiative (remote
wake-up). In this case the remote wake-up interrupt (WKUPINT bit in OTG_GINTSTS) is
generated upon detection of a remote wake-up signaling, the port resume bit in the host port
control and status register (PRES bit in OTG_HPRT) self-sets, and resume signaling is
automatically driven over the USB. The application must time the resume window and then
clear the port resume bit to exit the suspended state and restart the SOF.

RM0456 Rev 6