RM0456 Rev 6

RM0456

Hexadeca-SPI interface (HSPI)

Bits 13:8 FTHRES[5:0]: FIFO threshold level
This bitfield defines, in indirect mode, the threshold number of bytes in the FIFO that causes
the FIFO threshold flag FTF in HSPI_SR, to be set.
000000: FTF is set if there are one or more free bytes available to be written to in the FIFO
in indirect-write mode, or if there are one or more valid bytes can be read from the FIFO
in indirect-read mode.
000001: FTF is set if there are two or more free bytes available to be written to in the FIFO
in indirect-write mode, or if there are two or more valid bytes can be read from the FIFO
in indirect-read mode.
...
111111: FTF is set if there are 64 free bytes available to be written to in the FIFO
in indirect-write mode, or if there are 64 valid bytes can be read from the FIFO
in indirect-read mode.
Note: If DMAEN = 1, the DMA controller for the corresponding channel must be disabled
before changing the FTHRES[5:0] value.
Bit 7 Reserved, must be kept at reset value.
Bit 6 DMM: Dual-memory configuration
This bit activates the dual-memory configuration, where two external devices are used
simultaneously to double the throughput and the capacity.
0: Dual-memory configuration disabled
1: Dual-memory configuration enabled
Note: This bit can be modified only when BUSY = 0.
Bits 5:4 Reserved, must be kept at reset value.
Bit 3 TCEN: Timeout counter enable
This bit is valid only when the memory-mapped mode (FMODE[1:0] = 11) is selected. This bit
enables the timeout counter.
0: The timeout counter is disabled, and thus the chip-select (NCS) remains active indefinitely
after an access in memory-mapped mode.
1: The timeout counter is enabled, and thus the chip-select is released
in the memory-mapped mode after TIMEOUT[15:0] cycles of external device inactivity.
Note: This bit can be modified only when BUSY = 0.
Bit 2 DMAEN: DMA enable
In indirect mode, the DMA can be used to input or output data via HSPI_DR. DMA transfers
are initiated when FTF is set.
0: DMA disabled for indirect mode
1: DMA enabled for indirect mode
Note: Resetting the DMAEN bit while a DMA transfer is ongoing, breaks the handshake
with the DMA. Do not write this bit during DMA operation.
Bit 1 ABORT: Abort request
This bit aborts the ongoing command sequence. It is automatically reset once the abort is
completed. This bit stops the current transfer.
0: No abort requested
1: Abort requested
Note: This bit is always read as 0.

RM0456 Rev 6