RM0456 Rev 6

RM0456

General purpose direct memory access controller (GPDMA)

Trigger hit memorization and trigger overrun flag generation
The GPDMA monitoring of a trigger for a channel x is started when the channel is
enabled/loaded with a new active trigger configuration: rising or falling edge on a selected
trigger (respectively TRIGPOL[1:0] = 01 or TRIGPOL[1:0] = 10).
The monitoring of this trigger is kept active during the triggered and uncompleted (data or
link) transfer. If a new trigger is detected, this hit is internally memorized to grant the next
transfer, as long as the defined rising/falling edge and TRIGSEL[6:0] are not modified, and
the channel is enabled.
Transferring a next LLIn+1, that updates the GPDMA_CxTR2 with a new value for any of
TRIGSEL[6:0] or TRIGPOL[1:0], resets the monitoring, trashing the possible memorized hit
of the formerly defined LLIn trigger.
Caution:

After a first new trigger hitn+1 is memorized, if another trigger hitn+2 is detected and if the hitn
triggered transfer is still not completed, hitn+2 is lost and not memorized. A trigger overrun
flag is reported (GPDMA_CxSR.TOF = 1) and an interrupt is generated if enabled
(if GPDMA_CxCR.TOIE = 1). The channel is not automatically disabled by hardware due to
a trigger overrun.
Figure 69 illustrates the trigger hit, memorization and overrun in the configuration example
with a block-level trigger mode and a rising edge trigger polarity.
Figure 69. Trigger hit, memorization, and overrun waveform

Channel state

IDLE

ACTIVE

Trigger

Peripheral
request
block transfer

DMA transfer
Trigger monitoring
state

Idle

Active (monitoring)

Trigger monitoring
action

Active

Hit and
fire

block transfer

Active

Active

Hit and
Fire Hit and
memorize
memorize

block transfer

Active

Active

Hit and
trash

Active

Fire

Trigger overrun
Hit and trash

Hit and fire (or fire alone)

Hit and memorize

MSv66923V1

Note:

The user can assign the same input trigger event to different channels. This can be used to
trigger different channels on a broadcast trigger event.

17.4.13

GPDMA circular buffering with linked-list programming
GPDMA circular buffering for memory-to-peripheral and
peripheral-to-memory transfers, with a linear addressing channel
For a circular buffering, with a continuous memory-to-peripheral (or peripheral-to-memory)
transfer, the software must set up a channel with half transfer and complete transfer

RM0456 Rev 6