RM0456 Rev 6

RM0456

Secure digital input/output MultiMediaCard interface (SDMMC)
1.

Set the SDMMC_CK frequency in accordance with the achievable SDMMC_CMD data
rate in Open-drain mode, CLKDIV must be set >1, and SETCLKRX must select the
sdmmc_io_in_ck.

2.

Load CMD40 (GO_IRQ_STATE) in the command registers.

3.

Enable wait for interrupt by setting WAITINT register bit.

4.

Configure the CPSM to send a command immediately.
–

5.

This causes the CMD40 to be sent and the CPSM to be halted in the Wait state,
waiting for a interrupt service request response.

To exit the wait for interrupt state (CPSM Wait state):
–

Upon the detection of an interrupt service request response start bit the CPSM
moves to the Receive state where the response is received. The complete
reception of the response is indicated by the CMDREND or the command CRC
error flags.

–

To abort the interrupt mode the host clears the WAITINT register bit, which causes
the host to send an interrupt service request response by itself. This moves the
CPSM to the Receive state. The complete reception of the response is indicated
by the CMDREND or the command CRC error flags.

Note:

On a simultaneous send interrupt service request response start bit collision the host loses
the bus access after the transmission bit.

31.6.5

Boot operation
In boot operation mode the host can read boot data from the card by either one of the two
boot operation functions:
•

Normal boot. (keeping CMD line low)

•

Alternative boot (sending CMD0 with argument 0xFFFFFFFA)

The boot data can be read according the following configuration options, depending on card
register settings:
•

The partition from which boot data is read (EXT_CSD Byte[179])

•

The boot data size (EXT_CSD Byte[226])

•

The bus configuration during boot (EXT_CSD Byte[177])

•

Receiving boot acknowledgment from the card. (EXT_CSD Byte[179])

If boot acknowledgment is enabled the card send pattern 010 on SDMMC_D0 within 50ms
after boot mode has been requested by either CMD line going low or after CMD0 with
argument 0xFFFFFFFA. A boot acknowledgment timeout (ACKTIMEOUT) and
acknowledgment status (ACKFAIL) is provided.

Normal boot operation
If the SDMMC_CMD line is held low for at least 74 clock cycles after card power-up or reset,
before the first command is issued, the card recognizes that boot mode is being initiated.
Within 1 second after the CMD line goes low, the card starts to sent the first boot code data
on the SDMMC_Dn line(s). The host must keep the SDMMC_CMD line low until after all
boot data has been read. The host can terminate boot mode by pulling the SDMMC_CMD
line high.

RM0456 Rev 6