2687

Real-time clock (RTC)

RM0456

Bits 31:16 Reserved, must be kept at reset value.
Bit 15 PRIV: RTC privilege protection
0: All RTC registers can be written when the APB access is privileged or unprivileged, except
the registers protected by other privilege protection bits.
1: All RTC registers can be written only when the APB access is privileged.
Bit 14 INITPRIV: Initialization privilege protection
0: RTC Initialization mode, calendar and prescalers registers can be written when the APB
access is privileged or unprivileged.
1: RTC Initialization mode, calendar and prescalers registers can be written only when the
APB access is privileged.
Bit 13 CALPRIV: Shift register, Delight saving, calibration and reference clock privilege protection
0: Shift register, Delight saving, calibration and reference clock can be written when the APB
access is privileged or unprivileged.
1: Shift register, Delight saving, calibration and reference clock can be written only when the
APB access is privileged.
Bits 12:4 Reserved, must be kept at reset value.
Bit 3 TSPRIV: Timestamp privilege protection
0: RTC Timestamp configuration and interrupt clear can be written when the APB access is
privileged or unprivileged.
1: RTC Timestamp configuration and interrupt clear can be written only when the APB
access is privileged.
Bit 2 WUTPRIV: Wake-up timer privilege protection
0: RTC wake-up timer configuration and interrupt clear can be written when the APB access
is privileged or unprivileged.
1: RTC wake-up timer configuration and interrupt clear can be written only when the APB
access is privileged.
Bit 1 ALRBPRIV: Alarm B privilege protection
0: RTC Alarm B configuration and interrupt clear can be written when the APB access is
privileged or unprivileged.
1: RTC Alarm B configuration and interrupt clear can be written only when the APB access is
privileged.
Bit 0 ALRAPRIV: Alarm A and SSR underflow privilege protection
0: RTC Alarm A and SSR underflow configuration and interrupt clear can be written when the
APB access is privileged or unprivileged.
1: RTC Alarm A and SSR underflow configuration and interrupt clear can be written only
when the APB access is privileged.

Note: