RM0456 Rev 6

RM0456

Power control (PWR)
•

If the WFE instruction is used to enter the low-power mode, the MCU exits the lowpower mode as soon as an event occurs. The wake-up event can be generated either
by:
–

an NVIC IRQ/peripheral interrupt:
- When SEVONPEND = 0 in the Cortex-M33 system control register
By enabling an interrupt in the peripheral control register and in the NVIC. When
the MCU resumes from WFE, the peripheral interrupt pending bit and the NVIC
peripheral IRQ channel pending bit (in the NVIC interrupt clear pending register)
must be cleared. Only NVIC interrupts with high enough priority wake up and
interrupt the MCU.
- When SEVONPEND = 1 in the Cortex-M33 system control register
By enabling an interrupt in the peripheral control register and optionally in the
NVIC. When the MCU resumes from WFE, the peripheral interrupt pending bit and
the NVIC peripheral IRQ channel pending bit (in the NVIC interrupt clear pending
register) must be cleared. All NVIC interrupts wake up the MCU, even the disabled
ones. Only enabled NVIC interrupts with high enough priority wake up and
interrupt the MCU.

–

an event:
Configuring a EXTI line in event mode. When the CPU resumes from WFE, it is
not necessary to clear the EXTI peripheral interrupt pending bit or the NVIC IRQ
channel pending bit as the pending bits corresponding to the event line is not set.
It may be necessary to clear the interrupt flag in the peripheral.

The MCU exits Stop 3, Standby, or Shutdown mode through an external reset (NRST pin),
an IWDG reset, a rising edge on one of the enabled WKUPx pins or a RTC/TAMP event
(see Figure 773: RTC block diagram).
After waking up from Standby or Shutdown mode, the program execution restarts in the
same way as after a reset (boot pin sampling, option bytes loading, reset vector is fetched).
Caution:

When the device is in Stop mode, a peripheral interrupt powers on an internal oscillator.
The corresponding NVIC interrupt channel must be enabled to allow the interrupt to exit
the device from Stop mode. It is not allowed to disable a peripheral interrupt by disabling
only the NVIC channel while keeping the peripheral interrupt enable, as the device may
remain in Stop mode with clock on.
The peripherals with autonomous mode feature are able to generate an AHB or APB clock
request when the device is in Stop mode, depending on their internal events. The software
must ensure that either DMA transfer or interrupt is served, by configuring properly and in a
consistent way the RCC, the autonomous peripherals, the DMA channels and NVIC. Note
that when an autonomous peripheral requests the bus clock in Stop mode, the AHB and
APB clocks are distributed to all enabled peripherals (limited to SmartRun domain
peripherals in Stop 2 mode). Consequently, enabled peripherals, even without autonomous
mode capability, are temporarily clocked and can also generate an interrupt during this time.
These peripherals interrupts wake up the device from Stop mode.

10.7.5

Sleep mode
I/O states in Sleep mode
In Sleep mode, all I/O pins keep the same state as in Run mode.

RM0456 Rev 6