2236

Advanced-control timers (TIM1/TIM8)

RM0456

In capture mode, captures are actually done in the shadow register, which is copied into the
preload register.
In compare mode, the content of the preload register is copied into the shadow register
which is compared to the counter.

54.3.9

Input capture mode
In Input capture mode, the capture/compare registers (TIMx_CCRx) are used to latch the
value of the counter after a transition detected by the corresponding ICx signal. When a
capture occurs, the corresponding CCXIF flag (TIMx_SR register) is set and an interrupt or
a DMA request can be sent if they are enabled. If a capture occurs while the CCxIF flag was
already high, then the overcapture flag CCxOF (TIMx_SR register) is set. CCxIF can be
cleared by software by writing it to 0 or by reading the captured data stored in the
TIMx_CCRx register. CCxOF is cleared when it is written with 0.
The following example shows how to capture the counter value in TIMx_CCR1 when tim_ti1
input rises. To do this, use the following procedure:
•

Select the active input: TIMx_CCR1 must be linked to the tim_ti1 input, so write the
CC1S bits to 01 in the TIMx_CCMR1 register. As soon as CC1S becomes different
from 00, the channel is configured in input, and the TIMx_CCR1 register becomes
read-only.

•

Program the appropriate input filter duration in relation with the signal connected to the
timer (when the input is one of the tim_tix (ICxF bits in the TIMx_CCMRx register). Let’s
imagine that, when toggling, the input signal is not stable during at must five internal
clock cycles. We must program a filter duration longer than these five clock cycles. We
can validate a transition on tim_ti1 when eight consecutive samples with the new level
have been detected (sampled at fDTS frequency). Then write IC1F bits to 0011 in the
TIMx_CCMR1 register.

•

Select the edge of the active transition on the tim_ti1 channel by writing CC1P and
CC1NP bits to 0 in the TIMx_CCER register (rising edge in this case).

•

Program the input prescaler. In our example, we wish the capture to be performed at
each valid transition, so the prescaler is disabled (write IC1PS bits to 00 in the
TIMx_CCMR1 register).

•

Enable capture from the counter into the capture register by setting the CC1E bit in the
TIMx_CCER register.

•

If needed, enable the related interrupt request by setting the CC1IE bit in the
TIMx_DIER register, and/or the DMA request by setting the CC1DE bit in the
TIMx_DIER register.

When an input capture occurs:
•

The TIMx_CCR1 register gets the value of the counter on the active transition.

•

CC1IF flag is set (interrupt flag). CC1OF is also set if at least two consecutive captures
occurred whereas the flag was not cleared.

•

An interrupt is generated depending on the CC1IE bit.

•

A DMA request is generated depending on the CC1DE bit.

In order to handle the overcapture, it is recommended to read the data before the
overcapture flag. This is to avoid missing an overcapture which may happen after reading
the flag and before reading the data.