2687

Tamper and backup registers (TAMP)

64.4.8

RM0456

Boot hardware key (BHK)
The eight first backup registers from TAMP_BKP0R to TAMP_BKP7R can be used to store
a boot hardware key for the secure AES.
For this purpose, these registers must belong to the Protection Zone 1: BKPRWSEC must
be greater or equal to 8.
Once the backup registers are written with the boot hardware key, the BHKLOCK bit must
be set in the TAMP_SECCFGR register. Once BHKLOCK is set, the 8 backup registers
cannot be accessed anymore by software: they are read as 0 and write to these registers is
ignored. BHKLOCK cannot be cleared by software, and is cleared by hardware following a
tamper event or when the readout protection (RDP) is disabled. It is also cleared with
BKERASE command (in all cases the backup registers are also erased).
Refer to section secure AES co-processor (SAES) for details on procedure to download the
boot hardware key in the SAES.

64.4.9

Tamper detection
The tamper detection main purpose is to protect the device secrets from device external
attacks. The detection is made on events on TAMP_INx (x = pin index) I/Os, or on internal
monitors detecting out-of-range device conditions.
The tamper detection can be configured for the following purposes:
•

erase the backup registers and other device secrets stored in SRAMs or peripherals
listed in Table 644: TAMP interconnection

•

block the read/write access to the backup registers and other device secrets stored in
SRAMs or peripherals listed in Table 644: TAMP interconnection

•

generate an interrupt, capable to wake-up from low-power modes

•

generate a hardware trigger for the low-power timers, or a RTC timestamp event

The external I/Os tamper detection supports 2 main configurations:
•

Passive mode: TAMP_INx I/Os are monitored and a tamper is detected either on edge
or on level.

•

Active mode: TAMP_INx (x = pin index) is continuously compared with TAMP_OUTy
(y = pin index) allowing open-short detection.

A digital filter can be applied on external tamper detection to avoid false detection. In
addition, it is possible to configure each tamper source in potential mode, so that the secrets
erase is not launched by hardware on tamper detection. The secrets erase can then be
launched by software after software checks.

64.4.10

TAMP backup registers and other device secrets erase
The backup registers (TAMP_BKPxR) are not reset by system reset or when the device
wakes up from Standby mode.
The backup registers and the other device secrets are not reset when the corresponding
mask is set (TAMPxMSK=1 in the TAMP_CR2 register).

Note: