PCLK

APB bus

RM0456 Rev 6

IRQs to NVIC

MSv73152V2

RM0456

71.4.2

Universal serial bus full-speed host/device interface (USB)

USB pins and internal signals
Table 733. USB input/output pins
Pin name

71.4.3

Pin type

Description

USB_DP

Digital input/output

D+ line

USB_DM

Digital input/output

D- line

USB_NOE

Digital output

NOE (output enable of data
lines)

USB_SOF

Digital output

SOF (start of frame indicator)

USB reset and clocks
A single reset is present on USB. The RCC allows a reset to be forced by software.
There are two clocks:

71.4.4

•

PCLK for the APB bus interface and registers.

•

USB_ker_ck (48 MHz) for the main protocol logic including notably the serial interface
engine (SIE), see USB_ker_ck clock domain in block diagram.

General description and Device mode functionality
The USB peripheral provides a USB-compliant connection between the function
implemented by the microcontroller and an external USB function which can be a host PC
but also a USB Device. Data transfer between the external USB host or device and the
system memory occurs through a dedicated packet buffer memory accessed directly by the
USB peripheral. This dedicated memory size is 2048 bytes, and up to 16 mono-directional
or 8 bidirectional endpoints can be used. The USB peripheral interfaces with the external
USB Host or Device, detecting token packets, handling data transmission/reception, and
processing handshake packets as required by the USB standard. Transaction formatting is
performed by the hardware, including CRC generation and checking.
Each endpoint/channel is associated with a buffer description block indicating where the
endpoint/channel-related memory area is located, how large it is or how many bytes must
be transmitted. When a token for a valid function/endpoint pair is recognized by the USB
peripheral, the related data transfer (if required and if the endpoint/channel is configured)
takes place. The data buffered by the USB peripheral are loaded in an internal 16-bit
register and memory access to the dedicated buffer is performed. When all the data have
been transferred, if needed, the proper handshake packet over the USB is generated or
expected according to the direction of the transfer.
At the end of the transaction, an endpoint/channel-specific interrupt is generated, reading
status registers and/or using different interrupt response routines. The microcontroller can
determine:
•

which endpoint/channel has to be served,

•

which type of transaction took place, if errors occurred (bit stuffing, format, CRC,
protocol, missing ACK, over/underrun, etc.).

Special support is offered to isochronous transfers and high throughput bulk transfers,
implementing a double buffer usage, which permits to always have an available buffer for
the USB peripheral while the microcontroller uses the other one.

RM0456 Rev 6