609

Reset and clock control (RCC)

11.4.23

RM0456

Internal/external clock measurement with TIM15/TIM16/TIM17
The frequency of all on-board clock sources can be indirectly measured by means of
the TIM15, TIM16, or TIM17 channel 1 input capture, and LPTIM1 or LPTIM2 channel 2
input capture.

HSI16 and MSI calibration using LSE
The primary purpose of connecting the LSE to the channel 1 input capture of TIM15, TIM16,
and TIM17, and to the channel 2 input capture of LPTIM2, is to be able to precisely measure
the HSI16 and MSI system clocks (for this, either HSI16 or MSIS must be used as system
clock source). The number of HSI16 (MSIS respectively) clock counts between consecutive
edges of the LSE signal provides a measure of the internal clock period. Taking advantage
of the high precision of LSE crystals (typically a few tens of ppms), the internal clock
frequency can be determined with the same resolution, and the source can be trimmed
to compensate the manufacturing, process, temperature and/or voltage related frequency
deviations.
The four oscillators of MSI and HSI16 oscillator have dedicated user-accessible calibration
bits for this purpose.
The basic concept consists in providing a relative measurement (such as HSI16/LSE ratio).
The precision is therefore closely related to the ratio between the two clock sources.
The higher the ratio is, the better the measurement is.
Note:

When the LSE is available, the MSI can be automatically trimmed by LSE using PLL-mode.

HSI16 and MSI calibration using HSE
If the HSE is available, it can be used as system clock, and the timer input capture must be
connected either to MSI (divided by 1024 or by 4) or to HSI/256. TIM16 and TIM17 channel
1 input capture, as well and the LPTIM2 input capture 2, are connected to the divided
oscillator only when TIMICSEL[2:0] ≠ 0 in RCC_CCIPR1.
Considering that the timer counter is 16-bit, and that the ratio between HSE and the input
capture signal must be the highest possible, a division by 1024 must be selected when
MSIRC0, MSIRC1, or MSIRC2 is measured, and a division by 4 when MSIRC4 is
measured.

LSI calibration
The calibration of the LSI follows the same principle, but changing the reference clock.
The LSI clock must be connected to the channel 1 input capture of the TIM16 or TIM17, or
to the channel 2 input capture of the LPTIM1. Then defining the HSE as system clock
source, the number of its clock counts between consecutive edges of the LSI signal,
provides a measure of the internal low-speed clock period.
The basic concept consists in providing a relative measurement (such as HSE/LSI ratio).
The precision is therefore closely related to the ratio between the two clock sources.
The higher the ratio is, the better the measurement is.

11.4.24

Peripherals clock gating and autonomous mode
Peripherals clock gating in Run mode
Each peripheral clock can be enabled by the corresponding EN bit in RCC_AHBxENR and
RCC_APBxENR registers.