3086

FD controller area network (FDCAN)

RM0456

Bit 7 TEST: Test mode enable
0: Normal operation, FDCAN_TEST holds reset values
1: Test mode, write access to FDCAN_TEST enabled
Bit 6 DAR: Disable automatic retransmission
0: Automatic retransmission of messages not transmitted successfully enabled
1: Automatic retransmission disabled
Bit 5 MON: Bus monitoring mode
This bit can only be set by software when both CCE and INIT are set. The bit can be cleared
by the host at any time.
0: Bus monitoring mode disabled
1: Bus monitoring mode enabled
Bit 4 CSR: Clock stop request
0: No clock stop requested
1: Clock stop requested. When clock stop is requested, first INIT and then CSA is set after all
pending transfer requests have been completed and the CAN bus is idle.
Bit 3 CSA: Clock stop acknowledge
0: No clock stop acknowledged
1: FDCAN can be set in power-down by stopping APB clock and kernel clock.
Bit 2 ASM: ASM restricted operation mode
The restricted operation mode is intended for applications that adapt themselves to different
CAN bit rates. The application tests different bit rates and leaves the restricted operation
mode after it has received a valid frame. In the optional restricted operation mode the node is
able to transmit and receive data and remote frames and it gives acknowledge to valid
frames, but it does not send active error frames or over.load frames. In case of an error
condition or overload condition, it does not send dominant bits, instead it waits for the
occurrence of bus-idle condition to resynchronize itself to the CAN communication. The error
counters are not incremented. Bit ASM can only be set by software when both CCE and INIT
are set. The bit can be cleared by the software at any time.
0: Normal CAN operation
1: Restricted operation mode active
Bit 1 CCE: Configuration change enable
0: The CPU has no write access to the protected configuration registers.
1: The CPU has write access to the protected configuration registers (while INIT set in
FDCAN_CCCR).
Bit 0 INIT: Initialization
0: Normal operation
1: Initialization started

Note:

Due to the synchronization mechanism between the two clock domains, there can be a
delay until the value written to INIT can be read back. Therefore, the programmer has to
assure that the previous value written to INIT has been accepted by reading INIT before
setting INIT to a new value.

70.4.7

FDCAN nominal bit timing and prescaler register (FDCAN_NBTP)
Address offset: 0x001C
Reset value: 0x0600 0A03