RM0456 Rev 6

RM0456

Real-time clock (RTC)

Bit 7 INIT: Initialization mode
0: Free running mode
1: Initialization mode used to program time and date register (RTC_TR and RTC_DR), and
prescaler register (RTC_PRER), plus BIN and BCDU fields. Counters are stopped and start
counting from the new value when INIT is reset.
Bit 6 INITF: Initialization flag
When this bit is set to 1, the RTC is in initialization state, and the time, date and prescaler
registers can be updated.
0: Calendar registers update is not allowed
1: Calendar registers update is allowed
Bit 5 RSF: Registers synchronization flag
This bit is set by hardware each time the calendar registers are copied into the shadow
registers (RTC_SSR, RTC_TR and RTC_DR). This bit is cleared by hardware in initialization
mode, while a shift operation is pending (SHPF = 1), or when in bypass shadow register
mode (BYPSHAD = 1). This bit can also be cleared by software.
It is cleared either by software or by hardware in initialization mode.
0: Calendar shadow registers not yet synchronized
1: Calendar shadow registers synchronized
Bit 4 INITS: Initialization status flag
This bit is set by hardware when the calendar year field is different from 0 (Backup domain
reset state).
0: Calendar has not been initialized
1: Calendar has been initialized
Bit 3 SHPF: Shift operation pending
This flag is set by hardware as soon as a shift operation is initiated by a write to the
RTC_SHIFTR register. It is cleared by hardware when the corresponding shift operation has
been executed. Writing to the SHPF bit has no effect.
0: No shift operation is pending
1: A shift operation is pending
Bit 2 WUTWF: Wake-up timer write flag
This bit is set by hardware when WUT value can be changed, after the WUTE bit has been
set to 0 in RTC_CR.
It is cleared by hardware in initialization mode.
0: Wake-up timer configuration update not allowed except in initialization mode
1: Wake-up timer configuration update allowed
Bits 1:0 Reserved, must be kept at reset value.

RM0456 Rev 6