1104

Octo-SPI interface (OCTOSPI)

RM0456

The MAXTRAN[7:0] value must be greater than the minimal transaction size in terms of
number of cycles including the command, address, alternate, and dummy phases.
Note:

The communication regulation feature cannot be used in write mode for the flash memory
devices that require extra command to reenable the write operation after the NCS is active
again.
If NCS boundary, refresh, and communication regulation are enabled at the same time, the
NCS is released on the first condition met.

Restarting after an interrupted transfer
When a read or write operation is interrupted by a timeout or communication regulation
feature, the Octo-SPI interface, as soon as possible after getting back the port ownership,
reissues the initial command sequence together with the address following the last address
actually accessed before interruption. The transfer initially set goes on and ends
seamlessly.

28.4.8

OCTOSPI operating mode introduction
The OCTOSPI has the following operating modes regardless of the low-level protocol used
(either regular-command or HyperBus):

28.4.9

•

indirect mode (read or write)

•

automatic status-polling mode (only in regular-command protocol)

•

memory-mapped mode

OCTOSPI indirect mode
In indirect mode, the commands are started by writing to the OCTOSPI registers, and data
are transferred by writing or reading the data register, in a similar way to other
communication peripherals.
When FMODE[1:0] = 00 in OCTOSPI_CR, the OCTOSPI is in indirect-write mode: bytes are
sent to the external device during the data phase. Data are provided by writing to
OCTOSPI_DR.
When FMODE[1:0] = 01, the OCTOSPI is in indirect-read mode: bytes are received from the
external device during the data phase. Data are recovered by reading OCTOSPI_DR.
In indirect mode, when the OCTOSPI is configured in DTR mode over eight lanes with DQS
disabled, the given starting address and the data length must be even.

Note:

The OCTOSPI_AR register must be updated even if the start address is the same as the
start address of the previous indirect access.
The number of bytes to be read/written is specified in OCTOSPI_DLR: