RM0456 Rev 6

RM0456

75.2.6

Debug support (DBG)

Security
The trace and debug components allow a high degree of access to the processor and
system during product development. In order to protect user code and ensure that the
debug features can not be used to alter or compromise the normal operation of the finished
product, these features can be disabled or limited in scope. For example, secure software
debug and trace can be disabled without preventing the debug of nonsecure code.
The following authentication signals are used by the system to determine which debug
features are enabled or disabled:
•

dbgen: global enable for all debug features
0: All debug features are disabled.
1: Debug features in nonsecure state are enabled. Debug features in secure state are
dependent on the state of the spiden signal.

•

spiden: enables debug in secure state when dbgen = 1.
0: Debug features are disabled in secure state.
1: Debug features are enabled in secure state.

•

niden: enables trace and performance monitoring (non-invasive debug).
0: Trace generation is disabled.
1: Trace generation in nonsecure state is enabled. Trace generation in secure state is
dependent on the state of the spniden signal.

•

spniden: enables trace and performance monitoring in secure state when niden = 1.
0: Trace generation is disabled in secure state.
1: Trace generation is enabled in secure state.

For detailed information on the behavior of each component according to the state of the
authentication signals, refer to the relevant component chapter or to the relevant Arm
technical documentation.
The state of the signals are set according to the readout protection (RDP) level
(see Section 7.6.2: Readout protection (RDP)), as shown in the table below:
Table 790. Authentication signal states
RDP level

Authentication signal
state

0

dbgen = 1, spiden = 1
niden = 1, spniden = 1

Debug and trace is enabled whatever the state of the processor. The
debugger access to secure memory is permitted.

0.5

dbgen = 1, spiden = 0
niden = 1, spniden = 0

Debug and trace is enabled when the processor is in nonsecure state. The
debugger access to secure memory is disabled.

1

dbgen = 1, spiden = 0
niden = 1, spniden = 0

Debug and trace is enabled when the processor is in nonsecure state. The
debugger access to secure memory is disabled, as well as to the following
areas: flash memory, SRAM2, backup registers, ICACHE, on-the-fly
decryption region (OCTOSPI).

2

dbgen = 0, spiden = 0
niden = 0, spniden = 0

Debug and trace is disabled.

Description

RM0456 Rev 6