RM0456 Rev 6

RM0456

Low-power universal asynchronous receiver transmitter (LPUART)
Figure 839. Mute mode using Idle line detection
RXNE

Data 1 Data 2 Data 3 Data 4

RX

RWU
MMRQ written to 1

IDLE

Mute mode

RXNE

Data 5 Data 6

Normal mode
Idle frame detected

MSv31154V1

Note:

If the MMRQ is set while the IDLE character has already elapsed, mute mode is not entered
(RWU is not set).
If the LPUART is activated while the line is IDLE, the idle state is detected after the duration
of one IDLE frame (not only after the reception of one character frame).

4-bit/7-bit address mark detection (WAKE = 1)
In this mode, bytes are recognized as addresses if their MSB is a 1 otherwise they are
considered as data. In an address byte, the address of the targeted receiver is put in the 4
or 7 LSBs. The choice of 7- or 4-bit address detection is done using the ADDM7 bit. This 4bit/7-bit word is compared by the receiver with its own address, which is programmed in the
ADD bits in the LPUART_CR2 register.
Note:

In 7-bit and 9-bit data modes, address detection is done on 6-bit and 8-bit addresses
(ADD[5:0] and ADD[7:0]) respectively.
The LPUART enters mute mode when an address character is received which does not
match its programmed address. In this case, the RWU bit is set by hardware. The RXNE
flag is not set for this address byte and no interrupt or DMA request is issued when the
LPUART enters mute mode.
The LPUART also enters mute mode when the MMRQ bit is written to 1. The RWU bit is
also automatically set in this case.
The LPUART exits from mute mode when an address character is received which matches
the programmed address. Then the RWU bit is cleared and subsequent bytes are received
normally. The RXNE/RXFNE bit is set for the address character since the RWU bit has been
cleared.

Note:

When FIFO management is enabled, when MMRQ bit is set while the receiver is sampling
the last bit of a data, this data may be received before effectively entering in mute mode.
An example of mute mode behavior using address mark detection is given in Figure 840.

RM0456 Rev 6