1.

Write CONDRST at 1 and at 0 in the RNG_CR register to reset the conditioning logic.

2.

Wait for the CONDRST bit to be cleared by hardware. Then clear the SEIS interrupt
status bit in the RNG_SR register.

3.

If SECS is still set in RNG_SR it means a new seed error occurred (unlikely). In this
case go back to step 1).

RM0456 Rev 6

RM0456
Note:

True random number generator (RNG)
After a seed error RNG restarts generating random numbers when SECS is cleared.
When the application sets the ARDIS bit in the RNG_CR register, the auto-reset is disabled.
CONDRST must be used in step 1.

RNG tamper errors
When an unexpected error is found by the RNG an internal tamper event is triggered in the
TAMP peripheral, and the RNG stops delivering random data.
When this event occurs, the secure application needs to reset the RNG peripheral either
using the central reset management or the global SoC reset. Then a proper initialization of
the RNG is required, again.

48.3.8

RNG low-power use
If power consumption is a concern, the RNG can be disabled as soon as the DRDY bit is set
to 1 by setting the RNGEN bit to 0 in the RNG_CR register. As the post-processing logic and
the output buffer remain operational while RNGEN = 0 following features are available to
the software:
•

If there are valid words in the output buffer four random numbers can still be read from
the RNG_DR register.

•

If there are valid bits in the conditioning output internal register four additional random
numbers can be still be read from the RNG_DR register. If it is not the case RNG must
be reenabled by the application until the expected new noise source bits threshold is
reached (128-bit in NIST mode) and a complete conditioning round is done.
Four new random words are then available only if the expected number of conditioning
round is reached (two if NISTC = 0). The overall time can be found in Section 48.5:
RNG processing time on page 1914.

When disabling the RNG the user deactivates all the analog seed generators, whose power
consumption is given in the datasheet electrical characteristics section. The user also gates
all the logic clocked by the RNG clock. Note that this strategy is adding latency before a
random sample is available on the RNG_DR register, because of the RNG initialization time.
If the RNG block is disabled during initialization (that is well before the DRDY bit rises for the
first time), the initialization sequence resumes from where it was stopped when RNGEN bit
is set to 1, unless the application resets the conditioning logic using CONDRST bit in the
RNG_CR register.
When the application wants to disable the RNG clock it is recommended to wait two RNG
kernel clock cycles between clearing the RNGEN bit and disabling the RNG kernel clock
using the RCC.
Also, when application needs to enter a power mode where RNG is de-activated, it is
recommended to wait two RNG kernel clock cycles between clearing the RNGEN bit and
entering the low power mode using the PWR.
In the two cases above, to avoid unexpected consumption when RNG analog oscillators
stay active, application can set the bit 13 in RNG_CR register. Setting this bit adds some
marginal power consumption while RNGEN bit is set (RNG activated).
Note:

The power modes where RNG is deactivated (that is retained or not available) can be found
in the PWR section.

RM0456 Rev 6