2037

Hash processor (HASH)

51.4.5

RM0456

Message digest computing
The hash processor sequentially processes several blocks when computing the message
digest. For MD5, SHA1 and SHA2, the block size is 512 bits.
Each time the DMA or the CPU writes a block to the hash processor, the HASH
automatically starts computing the message digest. This operation is known as partial digest
computation.
As described in Section 51.4.4: Message data feeding, the message to be processed is
entered into the HASH 32-bit word at a time, writing to the HASH_DIN register to fill the
input FIFO.
In order to perform the hash computation on this data below sequence must be used by the
application:
1.

2.
Caution:

Initialize the hash processor using the HASH_CR register:
a)

Select the right algorithm using the ALGO bitfield. If needed program the correct
swapping operation on the message input words using DATATYPE bitfield in
HASH_CR.

b)

When the HMAC mode is required, set the MODE bit, as well as the LKEY bit if the
HMAC key size is greater than the known block size of the algorithm (else keep
LKEY cleared). Refer to Section 51.4.7: HMAC operation for details.

c)

Update NBLW[4:0] to define the number of valid bits in last word of the message if
it is different from 32 bits. NBLW[4:0] information are used to correctly perform the
automatic message padding before the final message digest computation.

Complete the initialization by setting to 1 the INIT bit in HASH_CR. Also set the bit
DMAE to 1 if data are transferred via DMA.

When programming step 2, it is important to set up before or at the same time the correct
configuration values (ALGO, DATATYPE, HMAC mode, key length, NBLW[4:0]).
3.

Start filling data by writing to HASH_DIN register, unless data are automatically:
transferred via DMA. Note that the processing of a block can start only once the last
value of the block has entered the input FIFO. The way the partial or final digest
computation is managed depends on the way data are fed into the processor:
a)

When data are filled by software:

–

Partial digest computation are triggered each time the application writes the first
word of the next block, the block size being defined the NBWE bit of HASH_CR.
Once the processor is ready again (DINIS = 1 in HASH_SR), the software can
write new data to HASH_DIN. This mechanism avoids the introduction of wait
states by the HASH.

–

The final digest computation is triggered when the last block is entered and the
software writes the DCAL bit to 1. If the message length is not an exact multiple of
the block size, the NBLW[4:0] bitfield in HASH_STR register must be written prior
to writing DCAL bit (see Section 51.4.6 for details).

b)

When data are filled by DMA as a single DMA transfer (MDMAT bit = 0):

–

Partial digest computations are triggered automatically each time the FIFO is full.
The final digest computation is triggered automatically when the last block has
been transferred to the HASH_DIN register (DCAL bit is set to 1 by hardware). If
the message length is not an exact multiple of the block size, the NBLW[4:0] field