RM0456 Rev 6

RM0456

Universal synchronous/asynchronous receiver transmitter (USART/UART)

Bits 19:17 SCARCNT[2:0]: Smartcard auto-retry count
This bitfield specifies the number of retries for transmission and reception in smartcard
mode.
In transmission mode, it specifies the number of automatic retransmission retries, before
generating a transmission error (FE bit set).
In reception mode, it specifies the number or erroneous reception trials, before generating a
reception error (RXNE/RXFNE and PE bits set).
This bitfield must be programmed only when the USART is disabled (UE = 0).
When the USART is enabled (UE = 1), this bitfield may only be written to 0x0, in order to
stop retransmission.
0x0: retransmission disabled - No automatic retransmission in transmission mode.
0x1 to 0x7: number of automatic retransmission attempts (before signaling error)
Note: If smartcard mode is not supported, this bit is reserved and must be kept at reset
value. Refer to Section 66.4: USART implementation.
Bit 16 Reserved, must be kept at reset value.
Bit 15 DEP: Driver enable polarity selection
0: DE signal is active high.
1: DE signal is active low.
This bit can only be written when the USART is disabled (UE = 0).
Note: If the Driver Enable feature is not supported, this bit is reserved and must be kept at
reset value. Refer to Section 66.4: USART implementation.
Bit 14 DEM: Driver enable mode
This bit enables the user to activate the external transceiver control, through the DE signal.
0: DE function is disabled.
1: DE function is enabled. The DE signal is output on the RTS pin.
This bit can only be written when the USART is disabled (UE = 0).
Note: If the Driver Enable feature is not supported, this bit is reserved and must be kept at
reset value. Section 66.4: USART implementation.
Bit 13 DDRE: DMA Disable on reception Error
0: DMA is not disabled in case of reception error. The corresponding error flag is set but
RXNE is kept 0 preventing from overrun. As a consequence, the DMA request is not
asserted, so the erroneous data is not transferred (no DMA request), but next correct
received data is transferred. (used for smartcard mode)
1: DMA is disabled following a reception error. The corresponding error flag is set, as well
as RXNE. The DMA request is masked until the error flag is cleared. This means that the
software must first disable the DMA request (DMAR = 0) or clear RXNE(RXFNE is case
FIFO mode is enabled) before clearing the error flag.
This bit can only be written when the USART is disabled (UE = 0).
Note: The reception errors are: parity error, framing error or noise error.
Bit 12 OVRDIS: Overrun Disable
This bit is used to disable the receive overrun detection.
0: Overrun Error Flag, ORE, is set when received data is not read before receiving new
data.
1: Overrun functionality is disabled. If new data is received while the RXNE flag is still set
the ORE flag is not set and the new received data overwrites the previous content of the
USART_RDR register. When FIFO mode is enabled, the RXFIFO is bypassed and data are
written directly in USART_RDR register. Even when FIFO management is enabled, the
RXNE flag is to be used.
This bit can only be written when the USART is disabled (UE = 0).
Note: This control bit enables checking the communication flow w/o reading the data

RM0456 Rev 6