2952

Serial peripheral interface (SPI)

RM0456

and clock controller (RCC) to ensure clocking of those SPI domains just necessary for
handling the data flow between the memory and the peripheral interface at dependency in
the SPI mode.
In Stop mode, the APB clock is requested by the peripheral each time the SPI registers
need to be updated based on specific traffic events (mainly TXP and RXP). The required
clock is provided by RCC if SPI autonomous mode is enabled at the RCC configuration and
the SPI is clocked by an internal oscillator available in Stop mode.
Interrupts or DMA requests are then generated, depending on the SPI configuration. If no
interrupt is enabled, the device remains in Stop mode. If DMA requests are enabled, the
data are directly transferred to/from the SRAM thanks to the DMA while the device remains
in Stop mode. If an enabled interrupt occurs, the device wakes up from Stop mode.
Note:

The peripheral clock request stays pending until the flag with enabled interrupt is set. This is
why it is important to service these pending requests and clear their flag as soon as possible
at system sensitive to the low-power consumption especially, and the application must
acknowledge all pending interrupts events before switching the SPI to low-power mode.

Slave mode
When the SPI is configured as a standard slave and the device is at Stop mode, the SPI
kernel clock and the SPI APB clock are not provided permanently. All the data flow between
the SPI interface and associated FIFOs is handled by an external SCK clock provided by
the outer master device within the serial interface clock domain. APB clock temporal
requests are then based upon specific traffic events at dependency on the SPI
configuration. As the slave never initializes a transfer, there is no need to synchronize any
transfer start in this mode.
Note:

The peripheral clock request stays pending until the flag with enabled interrupt stays set.
This is why it is important to service these pending requests and clear their flag as soon as
possible to achieve the lowest power consumption, and the application must acknowledge
all pending interrupt events before switching the SPI to low-power mode.

Master mode
The SPI operating in master mode provides the SCK signal for outer slaves until the transfer
is complete. The SCK signal is derived from the SPI clock generator running within the
kernel clock domain fed from the RCC upon kernel clock request provided by the SPI when
the device is in Stop mode. Temporal requests for the APB clock are then based upon
specific traffic events, depending on the SPI configuration. The SPI master always initializes
a transfer.
To minimize consumption in Stop mode, it is suggested to combine communication starts
triggered by hardware (the TRIGEN bit is set in the SPI_AUTOCR register) and transfers of
predefined data size (TSIZE > 0 in the SPI_CR2 register). This ensures that any APB clock
request is suppressed between EOT handling and the next trigger event.
A transfer starts once the CSTART bit is set. In the case of master transmitter, the TxFIFO
must be filled by data, too. The CSTART bit can be written either by software or by hardware
when a synchronous trigger is detected at Run, Sleep, or Stop mode. The trigger source is
selected by the TRIGSEL bits and enabled by the TRIGEN bit of the SPI_AUTOCR register.
When the enabled trigger is detected, the transfer starts and continues by handling data
until the EOT event or the transfer suspension. When the TRIGEN bit is changed, the user
must prevent any trigger event occurrence. If the user cannot prevent that, the TRIGEN bit