1599

Multi-function digital filter (MDF)

RM0456

In interrupt mode, when all the RXFIFOs working in interleaved-transfer mode have a data
ready, the FTHF flag of RXFIFO0 is asserted to allow the interrupt generation. The
application is then supposed to read sequentially one sample of each RXFIFOs, via
MDF_DFLT0DR. The FTHF event is released when the first data is read.
For the RXFIFOs working in interleaved-transfer mode, the interrupt mode is enabled by
setting FTHIE to 1 in MDF_DFLT0DR and by defining the amount of RXFIFOs working in
interleaved-transfer mode via ILVNB[3:0]. FTHIE of the other RXFIFOs working in
interleaved-transfer mode (RXFIFO1 to ILVNB[3:0]) are not taken into account.
The interleaved-transfer mode can only be applied starting at RXFIFO0 up to RXFIFOk. The
number of RXFIFOs working in interleaved-transfer mode are defined by ILVNB[3:0].
When ILVNB[3:0] = 0, all RXFIFOs work in independent-transfer mode.
The interleaved-transfer mode can be used only for digital filters delivering samples
perfectly synchronous each other. This is typically the case of sound capture with an array
of digital microphones sharing the same bitstream clock.
Caution:

Note:

To make the MDF working properly in interleaved-transfer mode, the following rules
must be respected:
•

All filters working in interleaved-transfer mode must be all synchronized together,
meaning that all filters must select the same ACQMOD[2:0] (must be equal to 010 or
011), the same trigger source and the same trigger sensitivity.

•

All filters working in interleaved-transfer mode must have the same configuration.

•

All sensors providing the data for the filters working in interleaved-transfer mode must
use the same bitstream clock frequency.

•

The maximum delay difference applied with SPKDLY[6:0] for the filters working in
interleaved-transfer mode must remain strictly lower than the RXFIFO depth. Normally
this delay does not need to exceed one TPCM period.

Both independent- and interleaved-transfer modes can work in parallel: for example, the first
RXFIFOs (RXFIFO0 to RXFIFOk) may work in interleaved-transfer mode when the others
(RXFIFO(k+1) to RXFIFO(N)) works in independent-transfer mode.
If the AHB clock is not present when a data transfer must be performed, the MDF first
requests the AHB clock (refer to Section 39.4.5: Clock generator (CKGEN) for details).