3086

FD controller area network (FDCAN)

RM0456

This feature looses up burst transmissions coming from a single node and it protects against
"babbling idiot" scenarios where the application program erroneously requests too many
transmissions.

Tx FIFO
Tx FIFO operation is configured by clearing the TFQM bit of the FDCAN_TXBC register.
Messages stored in the Tx FIFO are transmitted starting with the message referenced by
the get index (TFGI[1:0] bitfield of FDCAN_TXFQS). After each transmission, the get index
is incremented cyclically until the Tx FIFO is empty. The Tx FIFO enables transmission of
messages with the same message ID from different Tx buffers in the order that these
messages have been written to the Tx FIFO. The FDCAN calculates the Tx FIFO free level
(TFFL[2:0] bitfield of FDCAN_TXFQS) as the difference between the get and put index. It
indicates the number of available (free) Tx FIFO elements.
New transmit messages have to be written to the Tx FIFO starting with the Tx buffer
referenced by the put index (TFQPI[1:0] bitfield of FDCAN_TXFQS). An add request
increments the put index to the next free Tx FIFO element. When the put index reaches the
get index, Tx FIFO full (TFQF = 1 in FDCAN_TXFQS) is signaled. In this case, no further
messages must be written to the Tx FIFO until the next message has been transmitted and
the get index has been incremented.
When a single message is added to the Tx FIFO, the transmission is requested by setting
the FDCAN_TXBAR bit related to the Tx buffer referenced by the Tx FIFO put index.
When multiple (n) messages are added to the Tx FIFO, they are written to n consecutive Tx
buffers starting with the put index. The transmissions are then requested via the
FDCA_TXBAR register. The put index is then cyclically incremented by n. The number of
requested Tx buffers must not exceed the number of free Tx buffers as indicated by the Tx
FIFO free level.
When a transmission request for the Tx buffer referenced by the get index is canceled, the
get index is incremented to the next Tx buffer with a transmission request is pending and the
Tx FIFO free level is recalculated. When transmission cancellation is applied to any other Tx
buffer, the get index and the FIFO Free Level remain unchanged.
A Tx FIFO element allocates eighteen 32-bit words in the message RAM. The Therefore,
the start address of the next available (free) Tx FIFO buffer, is calculated by adding 18 times
the put index TFQPI[1:0] (0 … 2) to the Tx buffer start address TBSA.

Tx queue
Tx queue operation is configured by setting the TFQM of the FDCAN_TXBC register.
Messages stored in the Tx queue are transmitted starting with the message with the lowest
message ID (highest priority).
In case of mixing of standard and extended message IDs, the standard message IDs are
compared to bits [28:18] of extended message IDs.
In case multiple queue buffers are configured with the same message ID, the queue buffer
with the lowest buffer number is transmitted first.
New messages have to be written to the Tx buffer referenced by the put index (TFQPI[1:0]
in FDCAN_TXFQS). An add request cyclically increments the put index to the next free Tx
buffer. In case the Tx queue is full (TFQF = 1 in FDCAN_TXFQS), the put index is not valid
and no further message must be written to the Tx queue until at least one of the requested
messages has been sent out or a pending transmission request has been canceled.