3499

USB Type-C®/USB Power Delivery interface (UCPD)

RM0456

Ordered set detection
This function detects the different ordered sets each consisting of four 5-bit K-codes.
Once we are in the preamble we opens a sliding window detection of the ordered set (4
words of 5 bits).
The ordered sets detected include all SOP* codes (SOP, SOP’, and SOP’’), but also Hard
Reset, Cable Reset, SOP’_Debug, SOP’’_Debug, and two extensions defined by registers
UCPD_RX_ORDEXT1 and UCPD_RX_ORDEXT2.
EOP detection and Hard Reset exception handling
EOP is a fixed 5-bit K-code marking the end of a message.
The way in which a transmitter is required to send a Hard Reset (if a previous message
transmit is still in progress) is that this previous message is truncated early with an EOP.
If Hard Reset were ignored, then the EOP detection can be done only at the expected time.
However, due to the Hard Reset issue, the EOP detector must be active while an Rx
message is arriving. When an “early EOP” is detected, the truncated Rx message is
immediately discarded.
Truncated or corrupted message exception
Once the ordered set has been detected, depending on the message, there may be data
bytes to be received which is completed with a CRC and EOP. If at any point during these
phases an error condition happens:
•

the line becomes static for a time significantly longer than one “UI” period (the exact
threshold for this condition is not critical but the exception must occur before three UIs),
or

•

the message goes to the end but it is not recognized (for example EOP is corrupted).

In both cases, the receiver quits the current message, raising RXMSGEND and RXERR
flags.
Short preamble or incomplete ordered set exception
In the exceptional case of the receiver seeing less that half of the expected preamble, the
frequency estimation allowing correct BMC-decode becomes impossible. Even if the full
preamble is seen, allowing frequency estimation, but the ordered set is not fully received
before the line becomes static, the receiver state machine does not start.
In both of these cases, the clock-recovery/BMC decoder re-starts, checking initially for an
IDLE condition, followed by a preamble, and then estimating frequency.

74.4.6

UCPD Type-C pull-ups (Rp) and pull-downs (Rd)
UCPD offers simple control of these resistors via ANAMODE and ANASUBMODE[1:0]. In
case only one of the CC lines is to be used, it is possible to optimize power consumption by
disabling control on the other line, through the CCENABLE[1:0] bitfield.
When the MCU is unpowered, it still presents the “dead battery” Rd, provided that
UCPDx_DBCC1 and UCPDx_DBCC2 pins are each connected to UCPDx_CC1 and
UCPDx_CC2 pins, respectively.
If dead battery behavior is not required (for example for source only products), then
UCPDx_DBCC1 and UCPDx_DBCC2 pins must both be tied to ground.