RM0456 Rev 6

RM0456

Hexadeca-SPI interface (HSPI)
Each device (A or B) uses the same CLK and NCS signals, but each has separate IO0 to
IO3 signals.
The dual-quad configuration can be used in conjunction with the single-SPI, dual-SPI, and
quad-SPI modes, as well as with either SDR or DTR mode.
The device size, as specified in DEVSIZE[4:0] of HSPI_DCR1, must reflect the total external
device capacity that is the double of the size of one individual component.
If address X is even, then the byte that the HSPI gives for address X is the byte at the
address X/2 of device A, and the byte that the HSPI gives for address X + 1 is the byte at
the address X/2 of device B. In other words, the bytes at even addresses are all stored in
device A and the bytes at odd addresses are all stored in device B.
When reading the status registers of the devices in dual-quad configuration, twice as many
bytes must be read compared to the same read in regular-command protocol: if each device
gives eight valid bits after the instruction for fetching the status register, then the HSPI must
be configured with a data length of 2 bytes (16 bits), and the HSPI receives one byte from
each device.
If each device gives a status of 16 bits, then the HSPI must be configured to read 4 bytes to
get all the status bits of both devices in dual-quad configuration. The least-significant byte of
the result (in the data register) is the least-significant byte of device A status register.
The next byte is the least-significant byte of device B status register. Then, the third byte of
the data register is the device A second byte. The forth byte is the device B second byte
(if devices have 16-bit status registers).
An even number of bytes must always be accessed in dual-quad configuration. For this
reason, bit 0 of DL[31:0] in HSPI_DLR is stuck at 1 when DMM = 1.
In dual-quad configuration, the behavior of device A interface signals is basically the same
as in normal mode. Device B interface signals have exactly the same waveforms as
device A ones during the instruction, address, alternate-byte, and dummy-cycle phases. In
other words, each device always receives the same instruction and the same address.
Then, during the data phase, the AIOx and the BIOx buses both transfer data in parallel, but
the data that is sent to (or received from) device A is distinct than the one from device B.

Dual-octal configuration
When DMM = 1 in HSPI_CR, the HSPI is in dual-memory configuration: when
DMODE = 100, two external octal-SPI devices (device A and device B) are used in order to
receive 32 bits in DTR mode every cycle, effectively doubling the throughput as well as the
capacity.
Each device (A or B) uses the same CLK and NCS signals, but each has separate IO0 to
IO7 signals.
The dual-octal configuration can be used in DTR mode exclusively in conjunction with the
single-SPI, dual-SPI, quad-SPI and octal-SPI modes.
The device size, as specified in DEVSIZE[4:0] of HSPI_DCR1, must reflect the total external
device capacity that is the double of the size of one individual component.
If address X is even, then the byte that the HSPI gives for address X is the byte at the
address X/2 of device A, and the byte that the HSPI gives for address X + 1 is the byte at the
address X/2 of device B. In other words, the bytes at even addresses are all stored in device
A and the bytes at odd addresses are all stored in device B.

RM0456 Rev 6