3460

USB on-the-go high-speed (OTG_HS)

RM0456

Bit 16 L1RSMOK: Sleep state resume OK
Indicates that the device or host can start resume from Sleep state. This bit is valid in LPM
sleep (L1) state. It is set in sleep mode after a delay of 50 μs (TL1Residency).
This bit is reset when SLPSTS is 0.
1: The application or host can start resume from Sleep state
0: The application or host cannot start resume from Sleep state
Bit 15 SLPSTS: Port sleep status
Device mode:
This bit is set as long as a Sleep condition is present on the USB bus. The core enters the
Sleep state when an ACK response is sent to an LPM transaction and the TL1TokenRetry
timer has expired. To stop the PHY clock, the application must set the STPPCLK bit in
OTG_PCGCCTL, which asserts the PHY suspend input signal.
The application must rely on SLPSTS and not ACK in LPMRSP to confirm transition into
sleep.
The core comes out of sleep:
– When there is any activity on the USB linestate
– When the application writes to the RWUSIG bit in OTG_DCTL or when the application
resets or soft-disconnects the device.
Host mode:
The host transitions to Sleep (L1) state as a side-effect of a successful LPM transaction by
the core to the local port with ACK response from the device. The read value of this bit
reflects the current Sleep status of the port.
The core clears this bit after:
– The core detects a remote L1 wake-up signal,
– The application sets the PRST bit or the PRES bit in the OTG_HPRT register, or
– The application sets the L1Resume/ remote wake-up detected interrupt bit or disconnect
detected interrupt bit in the core interrupt register (WKUPINT or DISCINT bit in
OTG_GINTSTS, respectively).
0: Core not in L1
1: Core in L1
Bits 14:13 LPMRSP[1:0]: LPM response
Device mode:
The response of the core to LPM transaction received is reflected in these two bits.
Host mode:
Handshake response received from local device for LPM transaction
11: ACK
10: NYET
01: STALL
00: ERROR (No handshake response)
Bit 12 L1DSEN: L1 deep sleep enable
Enables suspending the PHY in L1 Sleep mode. For maximum power saving during L1
Sleep mode, this bit must be set to '1' by application SW in all the cases.