RM0456 Rev 6

16

HSEBY HSERD HSEO
P
Y
N

rw

RM0456

Reset and clock control (RCC)

Bit 24 PLL1ON: PLL1 enable
This bit is set and cleared by software to enable the main PLL. It is cleared by hardware
when entering Stop, Standby, or Shutdown mode. This bit cannot be reset if the PLL1 clock is
used as the system clock.
0: PLL1 OFF
1: PLL1 ON
Bits 23:21 Reserved, must be kept at reset value.
Bit 20 HSEEXT: HSE external clock bypass mode
This bit is set and reset by software to select the external clock mode in bypass mode.
External clock mode must be configured with HSEON bit to be used by the device. This bit
can be written only if the HSE oscillator is disabled. This bit is active only if the HSE bypass
mode is enabled.
0: external HSE clock analog mode
1: external HSE clock digital mode (through I/O Schmitt trigger)
Bit 19 CSSON: Clock security system enable
This bit is set by software to enable the clock security system. When CSSON is set, the clock
detector is enabled by hardware when the HSE oscillator is ready, and disabled by hardware
if a HSE clock failure is detected. This bit is set only and is cleared by reset.
0: clock security system OFF (clock detector OFF)
1: clock security system ON (clock detector ON if the HSE oscillator is stable, OFF if not).
Bit 18 HSEBYP: HSE crystal oscillator bypass
This bit is set and cleared by software to bypass the oscillator with an external clock.
The external clock must be enabled with the HSEON bit set, to be used by the device.
This bit can be written only if the HSE oscillator is disabled.
0: HSE crystal oscillator not bypassed
1: HSE crystal oscillator bypassed with external clock
Bit 17 HSERDY: HSE clock ready flag
This bit is set by hardware to indicate that the HSE oscillator is stable.
0: HSE oscillator not ready
1: HSE oscillator ready
Note: Once the HSEON bit is cleared, HSERDY goes low after six HSE clock cycles.
Bit 16 HSEON: HSE clock enable
This bit is set and cleared by software. It is cleared by hardware to stop the HSE oscillator
when entering Stop, Standby, or Shutdown mode. This bit cannot be reset if the HSE
oscillator is used directly or indirectly as the system clock.
0: HSE oscillator off
1: HSE oscillator on
Bit 15 SHSIRDY: SHSI clock ready flag
This bit is set by hardware to indicate that the SHSI oscillator is stable. It is set only when
SHSI is enabled by software (by setting SHSION).
0: SHSI oscillator not ready
1: SHSI oscillator ready
Note: Once the SHSION bit is cleared, SHSIRDY goes low after six SHSI clock cycles.
Bit 14 SHSION: SHSI clock enable
This bit is set and cleared by software. It is cleared by hardware to stop the SHSI when
entering in Stop, Standby, or Shutdown modes.
0: SHSI oscillator off
1: SHSI oscillator on

RM0456 Rev 6