3460

USB on-the-go high-speed (OTG_HS)

RM0456

Host enumeration
After detecting a peripheral connection the host must start the enumeration process by
sending USB reset and configuration commands to the new peripheral.
The application drives a USB reset signaling (single-ended zero) over the USB by keeping
the port reset bit set in the host port control and status register (PRST bit in OTG_HPRT) for
a minimum of 10 ms and a maximum of 20 ms. The application takes care of the timing
count and then of clearing the port reset bit.
Once the USB reset sequence has completed, the host port interrupt is triggered by the port
enable/disable change bit (PENCHNG bit in OTG_HPRT). This informs the application that
the speed of the enumerated peripheral can be read from the port speed field in the host
port control and status register (PSPD bit in OTG_HPRT) and that the host is starting to
drive SOFs (FS) or Keep alives (LS). The host is now ready to complete the peripheral
enumeration by sending peripheral configuration commands.

Host suspend
The application decides to suspend the USB activity by setting the port suspend bit in the
host port control and status register (PSUSP bit in OTG_HPRT). The OTG_HS core stops
sending SOFs and enters the suspended state.
The suspended state can be optionally exited on the remote device’s initiative (remote
wake-up). In this case the remote wake-up interrupt (WKUPINT bit in OTG_GINTSTS) is
generated upon detection of a remote wake-up signaling, the port resume bit in the host port
control and status register (PRES bit in OTG_HPRT) self-sets, and resume signaling is
automatically driven over the USB. The application must time the resume window and then
clear the port resume bit to exit the suspended state and restart the SOF.
If the suspended state is exited on the host initiative, the application must set the port
resume bit to start resume signaling on the host port, time the resume window and finally
clear the port resume bit.

73.7.2

Host channels
The OTG_HS core instantiates 16 host channels. Each host channel supports an USB host
transfer (USB pipe). The host is not able to support more than 16 transfer requests at the
same time. If more than 16 transfer requests are pending from the application, the host
controller driver (HCD) must re-allocate channels when they become available from
previous duty, that is, after receiving the transfer completed and channel halted interrupts.
Each host channel can be configured to support in/out and any type of periodic/nonperiodic
transaction. Each host channel makes us of dedicated control (OTG_HCCHARx), transfer
configuration (OTG_HCTSIZx) and status/interrupt (OTG_HCINTx) registers with
associated mask (OTG_HCINTMSKx) registers.