2687

Tamper and backup registers (TAMP)

RM0456

Table 645. Device resource x tamper protection
Potential tamper
or BKBLOCK

-

Confirmed tamper
or BKERASE

RPCFGx = 0

No effect on device resource x

No effect on device resource x

RPCFGx = 1

Device secret x protected as
described by
tamp_potential_ercfgx(1)

Device secret x protected as
described by
tamp_confirmed_ercfgx(1)

1. Refer to Table 644: TAMP interconnection.

Device secrets access blocked by software
By default, the device secrets can be accessed by the application, except if a tamper event
flag is detected: the device secrets access is not possible as long as a tamper flag is set.
It is possible to block the access to the device secrets by software, by setting the BKBLOCK
bit of the TAMP_CR2 register. The device secrets access is possible only when
BKBLOCK = 0 and no tamper flag is set.

64.4.11

Tamper detection configuration and initialization
Each input can be enabled by setting the corresponding TAMPxE bits to 1 in the TAMP_CR
register.
Each TAMP_INx tamper detection input is associated with a flag TAMPxF in the TAMP_SR
register.
By setting the TAMPxIE bit in the TAMP_IER register, an interrupt is generated when a
tamper detection event occurs (when TAMPxF is set). Setting TAMPxIE is not allowed when
the corresponding TAMPxMSK is set.

Trigger output generation on tamper event
The tamper event detection can be used as trigger input by the low-power timers.
When TAMPxMSK bit is cleared in TAMP_CR register, the TAMPxF flag must be cleared by
software in order to allow a new tamper detection on the same pin.
When TAMPxMSK bit is set, the TAMPxF flag is masked, and kept cleared in TAMP_SR
register. This configuration permits the low-power timers to be triggered automatically in
Stop mode, without requiring the system wake-up to perform the TAMPxF clearing. In this
case, the backup registers are not cleared.
This feature is available only when the tamper is configured in level detection with filtering
mode (TAMPFLT ≠ 00 and active mode is not selected). Refer to Section : Level detection
with filtering on tamper inputs (passive mode).

Timestamp on tamper event
With TAMPTS set to 1 in the RTC_CR, any internal or external tamper event causes a
timestamp to occur. In case a timestamp occurs due to tamper event, either the TSF bit or
the TSOVF bit is set in RTC_SR, in the same manner as if a normal timestamp event
occurs.
Note: