•

When half of the FIFO size of the channel x is lower than the programmed
source/destination burst size, the programmed source/destination GPDMA burst is
implemented with a series of singles or bursts of a lower size, each transfer being of a
size that is lower or equal than half of the FIFO size, without any user constraint.

•

if the source block size (GPDMA_CxBR1.BNDT[15:0]) is not a multiple of the source
burst size but is a multiple of the data width of the source burst
(GPDMA_CxTR1.SDW_LOG2[1:0]), the GPDMA modifies and shortens bursts into
singles or bursts of lower length, in order to transfer exactly the source block size,
without any user constraint.

RM0456 Rev 6

RM0456

General purpose direct memory access controller (GPDMA)
•

if the source/destination burst transfer have crossed the 1-Kbyte address boundary on
a AHB transfer, the GPDMA modifies and shortens the programmed burst into singles
or bursts of lower length, to be compliant with the AHB protocol, without any user
constraint.

•

If the source/destination burst length exceeds 16 on a AHB transfer, the GPDMA
modifies and shortens the programmed burst into singles or bursts of lower length, to
be compliant with the AHB protocol, without any user constraint.

In any case, the GPDMA keeps ensuring source/destination data (and address) integrity
without any user constraint. The current FIFO level (software readable in GPDMA_CxSR) is
compared to and updated with the effective transfer size, and the GPDMA re-arbitrates
between each AHB single or burst transfer, possibly modified.
Based on the channel priority, each single or burst of a lower burst size versus the
programmed burst, is internally arbitrated versus the other requested and active channels.
Note:

In linked-list mode, the GPDMA read transfers related to the update of the linked-list
parameters from the memory to the internal GPDMA registers, are scheduled over the link
allocated port, as programmed by GPDMA_CxCR.LAP.

GPDMA data handling: byte-based reordering, packing/unpacking,
padding/truncation, sign extension and left/right alignment
The data handling is controlled by GPDMA_CxTR1. The source/destination data width of
the programmed burst is byte, half-word or word, as per the SDW_LOG2[1:0] and
DDW_LOG2[1:0] fields (see Table 141).
The user can configure the data handling between transferred data from the source and
transfer to the destination. More specifically, programmed data handling is orderly
performed with:
1.

Byte-based source reordering
–

2.

3.

Note:

If SBX = 1 and if source data width is a word, the two bytes of the unaligned
half-word at the middle of each source data word are exchanged.

Data width conversion by packing, unpacking, padding or truncation, if destination data
width is different than the source data width, depending on PAM[1:0]:
–

If destination data width > source data width, the post SBX source data is either
right-aligned and padded with 0 s, or sign extended up to the destination data
width, or is FIFO queued and packed up to the destination data width.

–

If destination data width < source data width, the post SBX data is either
right-aligned and left-truncated down to the destination data width, or is FIFO
queued and unpacked and streamed down to the destination data width.

Byte-based destination re-ordering:
–

If DBX = 1 and if the destination data width is not a byte, the two bytes are
exchanged within the aligned post PAM[1:0] half-words.

–

If DHX = 1 and if the destination data width is neither a byte nor a half-word, the
two aligned half-words are exchanged within the aligned post PAM[1:0] words.

Left-alignment with 0s-padding can be achieved by programming both a right-alignment with
a 0s-padding and a destination byte-based re-ordering.

RM0456 Rev 6