2902

Universal synchronous/asynchronous receiver transmitter (USART/UART)

RM0456

ignored by the IrDA decoder and if the Receiver is busy (when the USART is receiving
decoded data from the USART), data on the TX from the USART to IrDA is not
encoded. While receiving data, transmission must be avoided as the data to be
transmitted may be corrupted.
•

A 0 is transmitted as a high pulse and a 1 is transmitted as a 0. The width of the pulse
is specified as 3/16th of the selected bit period in normal mode (see Figure 828).

•

The SIR decoder converts the IrDA compliant receive signal into a bit stream for
USART.

•

The SIR receive logic interprets a high state as a logic one and low pulses as logic
zeros.

•

The transmit encoder output has the opposite polarity to the decoder input. The SIR
output is in low state when Idle.

•

The IrDA specification requires the acceptance of pulses greater than 1.41 µs. The
acceptable pulse width is programmable. Glitch detection logic on the receiver end
filters out pulses of width less than two periods, where the period equals
PSC / usart_ker_ck_pres (PSC being the prescaler value programmed in the PSC[7:0]
bitfield of the USART_GTPR register). Pulses of width less than one period are always
rejected, but those of width greater than one and less than two periods may be
accepted or rejected, those greater than two periods are accepted as a pulse. The IrDA
encoder/decoder does not work when PSC = 0.

•

The receiver can communicate with a low-power transmitter.

•

In IrDA mode, the stop bits in the USART_CR2 register must be configured to 1 stop
bit.

IrDA low-power mode
•

Transmitter
In low-power mode, the pulse width is not maintained at 3 / 16 of the bit period. Instead,
the width of the pulse is three times the IrDA low-power period. The IrDA low-power
frequency minimum value is 1.42 MHz. Generally, this value is 1.8432 MHz
(1.42 MHz < IrDA low-power frequency < 2.12 MHz). A low-power mode
programmable divisor divides the system clock to achieve this value.

•

Receiver
Receiving in low-power mode is similar to receiving in normal mode. For glitch
detection the USART must discard pulses of duration shorter than one IrDA low-power
period. A valid low is accepted only if its duration is greater than two IrDA low-power
periods.

Note:

IrDA low-power period = PSC / usart_ker_ck_pres, where PSC corresponds to the value
programmed in the PSC[7:0] bitfield of the USART_GTPR register.
A pulse of width less than two and greater than one IrDA low-power period may or may not
be rejected.
The receiver set-up time must be managed by software. The IrDA physical layer
specification specifies a minimum of 10 ms delay between transmission and reception.