RM0456 Rev 6

RM0456

USB on-the-go high-speed (OTG_HS)

Bit 12 BERR: Babble error interrupt
The core generates this interrupt when babble is received for the endpoint.
Bits 11:10 Reserved, must be kept at reset value.
Bit 9 Reserved, must be kept at reset value.
Bit 8 OUTPKTERR: OUT packet error
This interrupt is asserted when the core detects an overflow or a CRC error for an OUT
packet. This interrupt is valid only when thresholding is enabled.
Bit 7 Reserved, must be kept at reset value.
Bit 6 B2BSTUP: Back-to-back SETUP packets received
Applies to control OUT endpoint only.
This bit indicates that the core has received more than three back-to-back SETUP packets
for this particular endpoint.
Bit 5 STSPHSRX: Status phase received for control write
This interrupt is valid only for control OUT endpoints. This interrupt is generated only after
OTG_HS has transferred all the data that the host has sent during the data phase of a
control write transfer, to the system memory buffer. The interrupt indicates to the application
that the host has switched from data phase to the status phase of a control write transfer.
The application can use this interrupt to ACK or STALL the status phase, after it has
decoded the data phase.
Bit 4 OTEPDIS: OUT token received when endpoint disabled
Applies only to control OUT endpoints.
Indicates that an OUT token was received when the endpoint was not yet enabled. This
interrupt is asserted on the endpoint for which the OUT token was received.
Bit 3 STUP: SETUP phase done
Applies to control OUT endpoint only.Indicates that the SETUP phase for the control
endpoint is complete and no more back-to-back SETUP packets were received for the
current control transfer. On this interrupt, the application can decode the received SETUP
data packet.
Bit 2 AHBERR: AHB error
This is generated only in internal DMA mode when there is an AHB error during an AHB
read/write. The application can read the corresponding endpoint DMA address register to
get the error address.
Bit 1 EPDISD: Endpoint disabled interrupt
This bit indicates that the endpoint is disabled per the application’s request.
Bit 0 XFRC: Transfer completed interrupt
This field indicates that the programmed transfer is complete on the AHB as well as on the
USB, for this endpoint.

RM0456 Rev 6