RM0456 Rev 6

RM0456

FD controller area network (FDCAN)
The application can use the FDCAN_TXBRP register instead of the put index and can place
messages to any Tx buffer without pending transmission request.
A Tx queue buffer allocates eighteen 32-bit words in the message RAM. The start address
of Therefore, the next available (free) Tx queue buffer is calculated by adding 18 times the
Tx queue put index TFQPI[1:0] (0 ... 2) to the Tx buffer start address TBSA.

Transmit cancellation
The FDCAN supports transmit cancellation. To cancel a requested transmission from a Tx
queue buffer, the host has to write 1 to the corresponding bit position (= number of Tx buffer)
of the FDCAN_TXBCR register. Transmit cancellation is not intended for Tx FIFO operation.
Successful cancellation is signaled by setting the corresponding bit of the FDCAN_TXBCF
register.
In case a transmit cancellation is requested while a transmission from a Tx buffer is already
ongoing, the corresponding FDCAN _TXBRP bit remains set as long as the transmission is
in progress. If the transmission is successful, the corresponding FDCAN_TXBTO and
FDCAN_TXBCF bits are set. If the transmission is not successful, it is not repeated and only
the corresponding FDCAN_TXBCF bit is set.
Note:

In case a pending transmission is canceled immediately before it has been started, there is
a short time window where no transmission is started even if another message is pending in
the node. This can enable another node to transmit a message that can have a priority lower
than that of the second message in the node.

Tx event handling
To support Tx event handling the FDCAN has implemented a Tx event FIFO. After the
FDCAN has transmitted a message on the CAN bus, message ID and timestamp are stored
in a Tx event FIFO element. To link a Tx event to a Tx event FIFO element, the message
marker from the transmitted Tx buffer is copied into the Tx event FIFO element.
The Tx event FIFO is configured to three elements. The Tx event FIFO element is described
in Tx FIFO.
The purpose of the Tx event FIFO is to decouple handling transmit status information from
transmit message handling that is, a Tx buffer holds only the message to be transmitted,
while the transmit status is stored separately in the Tx event FIFO. This has the advantage,
especially when operating a dynamically managed transmit queue, that a Tx buffer can be
used for a new message immediately after successful transmission. There is no need to
save transmit status information from a Tx buffer before overwriting that Tx buffer.
When a Tx event FIFO full condition is signaled by the TEFF bit of the FDCAN_IR, no
further elements are written to the Tx event FIFO until at least one element has been read
out and the Tx event FIFO get index has been incremented. In case a Tx event occurs while
the Tx event FIFO is full, this event is discarded and the TEFL interrupt flag is set in the
FDCAN_IR register.
When reading from the Tx event FIFO, the Tx event FIFO get index (EFGI[1:0] of
FDCAN_TXEFS) has to be added twice to the Tx event FIFO start address EFSA.

RM0456 Rev 6