Error management (privileged-only)
–

Any unprivileged transaction trying to access a privileged resource is considered
as illegal. There is no illegal access event generated for illegal unprivileged read
and write accesses.

–

The addressed resource follows a silent-fail behavior, returning all zero data for
read and ignoring any write.

–

When an illegal unprivileged access occurs, no bus error is generated, except
when this access is an instruction fetch, accessing a privileged memory or a
peripheral register.

RM0456 Rev 6

RM0456

System security

Managing security in privileged-aware peripherals
TrustZone-aware peripherals also implement privileged-only access mode. The privileged
protection is valid even if TZEN = 0:

•

Embedded flash memory
By default all embedded flash registers can be read or programmed in both privileged
and unprivileged modes.
When secure privileged bit SPRIV is set in FLASH_PRIVCFGR, reading and writing
the flash secure registers are possible only in privileged mode. Write access to this bit
is ignored if TrustZone is deactivated (TZEN = 0).
When nonsecure privileged bit NSPRIV is set in FLASH_PRIVCFGR, reading and
writing the flash nonsecure registers are possible only in privileged mode.
Regarding privileged protection of the embedded flash memory, the devices offer the
following features:

Note:

–

The system flash memory can be accessed both in privileged and unprivileged
modes.

–

Each watermark-based secure area, including its secure HDP area, is accessible
in secure-privileged and secure-unprivileged mode, if applicable.

–

Each 8-Kbyte page of the embedded flash memory can be programmed on-the-fly
as privileged only, using the block-based privileged configuration registers
FLASH_PRIV1BBRx and FLASH_PRIV2BBRx. An unprivileged page is
accessible by a privileged or unprivileged access.

Switching a page from privileged to unprivileged does not erase the content of the page.
When applicable, an erase or program operation is always available to privileged code, and
is available to unprivileged code only for unprivileged pages or unprivileged memory.

•

On-the-fly encryption/decryption (OTFDEC)
When privileged bit PRIV is set in OTFDEC_PRIVCFGR, the OTFDEC can only be
initialized by a privileged application.

Note:

OTFDEC_PRIVCFGR can be read by both privileged and unprivileged code.

•

Direct memory access controllers (LPDMA and GPDMA)
When a DMA channel x is defined as privileged (PRIVx = 1 in
LP/GPDMA_PRIVCFGR), special rules apply when accessing privileged/unprivileged
source or destination. Those rules are summarized on the table below.
Table 16. DMA channel use (privilege)
Privileged DMA channel x (PRIVx = 1)

Unprivileged DMA channel y (PRIVy = 0)

Destination
Privileged source
Privileged
Unprivileged

Unprivileged source

Privileged source

Unprivileged source

Transfer blocked(1)

OK

Transfer blocked

OK

1. When a transfer is blocked, the transfer completes but the corresponding writes are ignored, and reads return zeros.

See Section 18: Low-power direct memory access controller (LPDMA) and Section 17:
General purpose direct memory access controller (GPDMA) for more details.

RM0456 Rev 6