1861

DSI Host (DSI)

44.10

RM0456

Functional description: virtual channels
The DSI Host supports choosing the virtual channel (VC) for use for each interface. Using
multiple virtual channels, the system can address multiples displays at the same time, when
each display has a different virtual channel identifier.
When the LTDC interface is configured for a particular virtual channel, it is possible to use
the APB register interface to issue the commands while the video stream is being
transmitted. With this, it is possible to send the commands through the ongoing video
stream, addressing different virtual channels and thus enable the interface with multiple
displays. During the video mode, the video stream transmission has the maximum priority.
Therefore, the transmission of sideband packets such as the ones from the generic interface
are only transported when there is time available within the video stream transmission. The
DSI Host identifies the available time periods and uses them to transport the generic
interface packets. Figure 438 illustrates where the DSI Host inserts the packets from the
APB generic interface within the video stream transmitted by the LTDC interface.

Short packets transmitted through the DPI interface
Payload transmitted through the DPI interface
Commands transmitted through the APB register interface (different VC)
Areas where the controller can transmit commands when there is enough time

MS35885V2

Figure 438. Command transmission by the generic interface

It is also possible to address the multiple displays with only the generic interface, using
different virtual channels. Because the generic interface is not restricted to any particular
virtual channel through configuration, it is possible to issue the packets with different virtual
channels. This enables the interface to time multiplex the packets to be provided to the
displays with different virtual channels.
You can use the following configuration registers to select the virtual channel ID associated
with transmissions over the LTDC and APB register interfaces: