2037

Hash processor (HASH)

RM0456

Bits 11:8 NBW[3:0]: Number of words already pushed
Refer to NBWP[3:0] bitfield of HASH_SR for the description.
This bitfield is read-only.
Bit 7 Reserved, must be kept at reset value.
Bit 6 MODE: Mode selection
This bit selects the HASH or HMAC mode for the selected algorithm:
0: Hash mode selected
1: HMAC mode selected. LKEY must be set if the key being used is longer than 64 bytes.
This selection is only taken into account when the INIT bit is set. Changing this bit during a
computation has no effect.
Bits 5:4 DATATYPE[1:0]: Data type selection
Defines the format of the data entered into the HASH_DIN register:
00: 32-bit data. The data written into HASH_DIN are directly used by the HASH processing,
without reordering.
01: 16-bit data, or half-word. The data written into HASH_DIN are considered as two halfwords, and are swapped before being used by the HASH processing.
10: 8-bit data, or bytes. The data written into HASH_DIN are considered as four bytes, and
are swapped before being used by the HASH processing.
11: bit data, or bit-string. The data written into HASH_DIN are considered as 32 bits (1st bit of
the string at position 0), and are swapped before being used by the HASH processing (1st bit
of the string at position 31).
Bit 3 DMAE: DMA enable
0: DMA transfers disabled
1: DMA transfers enabled. A DMA request is sent as soon as the HASH core is ready to
receive data.
After this bit is set it is cleared by hardware while the last data of the message is written into
the hash processor.
Setting this bit to 0 while a DMA transfer is ongoing is not aborting this current transfer.
Instead, the DMA interface of the IP remains internally enabled until the transfer is completed
or INIT is written to 1.
Setting INIT bit to 1 does not clear DMAE bit.
Bit 2 INIT: Initialize message digest calculation
Writing this bit to 1 resets the hash processor core, so that the HASH is ready to compute the
message digest of a new message.
Writing this bit to 0 has no effect. Reading this bit always return 0.
Bits 1:0 Reserved, must be kept at reset value.

51.6.2

HASH data input register (HASH_DIN)
Address offset: 0x04
Reset value: 0x0000 0000
HASH_DIN is the data input register. It is 32-bit wide. This register is used to enter the
message by blocks. When the HASH_DIN register is programmed, the value presented on
the AHB databus is ‘pushed’ into the hash core and the register takes the new value
presented on the AHB databus. To get a correct message format, the DATATYPE bits must
have been previously configured in the HASH_CR register.
When a complete block has been written to the HASH_DIN register, an intermediate digest
calculation is launched: