482

Power control (PWR)

RM0456

The BOR is always available in Stop 3 mode.
All other peripherals must be either disabled by clearing the enable bit in the peripheral
itself, or put under reset state by configuring RCC registers.

I/O states in Stop 3 mode
In the Stop 3 mode, the I/Os are by default in floating state. If the APC bit in the PWR_APCR
register is set, the I/Os can be configured either with a pull-up (see PWR_PUCRx registers),
or with a pull-down (see PWR_PDCRx registers), or can be kept in analog state if none of
the PWR_PUCRx or PWR_PDCRx register is set. The pull-down configuration has highest
priority over pull-up configuration in case both PWR_PUCRx and PWR_PDCRx are set for
the same I/O. After wake-up from Stop 3 mode, the pull-up/pull-down I/O configuration
remains retained based on the PWR_PUCRx/PWR_PDCRx registers as long as the APC
bit is set.
Some I/Os (listed in Section 13: General-purpose I/Os (GPIO)) are used for JTAG/SW
debug and can only be configured to their respective reset pull-up or pull-down state during
Stop 3 mode setting their respective bit to 1 in the PWR_PUCRx or PWR_PDCRx registers,
or to be configured to floating state if the bit is kept at 0.
The RTC outputs on PC13 and PB2 are functional in Stop 3 mode. PC14 and PC15 used for
LSE are also functional. The 24 wake-up pins multiplexed on eight events
(WKUPx, x = 1 to 8) and the eight RTC tampers pins are available.

Entering Stop 3 mode
The MCU enters the Stop 3 mode as described in Entering into a low-power mode, when the
SLEEPDEEP bit in the Cortex-M33 System Control register is set (see Table 105 for details
on how to enter the Stop 3 mode).
If the flash memory programming is ongoing, the Stop 3 mode entry is delayed until the
memory access is finished.
If an access to the APB domain is ongoing, the Stop 3 mode entry is delayed until the APB
access is finished.
In Stop 3 mode, the following features can be selected by programming individual control
bits:
•

The independent watchdog (IWDG) is started by writing to its key register or by
hardware option. Once started it cannot be stopped except by a reset (see
Section 23.3: IWDG functional description).

•

The real-time clock (RTC) and Tamper (TAMP) kernel clock enabled by the RTCEN bit
in RCC_BDCR.

•

The internal RC oscillator LSI clock or LSI clock divided by 128, is configured by the
LSION and LSIPREDIV bits in RCC_BDCR.

•

The external 32.768 kHz oscillator (LSE) is configured by the LSEON bit in
RCC_BDCR.

Exiting Stop 3 mode
The MCU exits the Stop 3 mode as described in Exiting a low-power mode (see Table 105
for details on how to exit Stop 3 mode).
When exiting Stop 3 mode by issuing an interrupt or a wake-up event, HSI16 is selected as
system clock if the STOPWUCK bit is set in RCC_CFGR1. MSIS is selected as system