RM0456 Rev 6

RM0456

Universal serial bus full-speed host/device interface (USB)

Bit 9 SOF: Start of frame
This bit signals the beginning of a new USB frame and it is set when a SOF packet arrives
through the USB bus. The interrupt service routine can monitor the SOF events to have a
1 ms synchronization event to the USB host and to safely read the USB_FNR register which
is updated at the SOF packet reception (this can be useful for isochronous applications). This
bit is read/write but only 0 can be written and writing 1 has no effect.
Bit 8 ESOF: Expected start of frame
– Device mode
This bit is set by the hardware when an SOF packet is expected but not received. The host
sends an SOF packet each 1 ms, but if the device does not receive it properly, the suspend
timer issues this interrupt. If three consecutive ESOF interrupts are generated (for example
three SOF packets are lost) without any traffic occurring in between, a SUSP interrupt is
generated. This bit is set even when the missing SOF packets occur while the suspend timer
is not yet locked. This bit is read/write but only 0 can be written and writing 1 has no effect.
Bit 7 L1REQ: LPM L1 state request
– Device mode
This bit is set by the hardware when LPM command to enter the L1 state is successfully
received and acknowledged. This bit is read/write but only 0 can be written and writing 1 has
no effect.
Bits 6:5 Reserved, must be kept at reset value.
Bit 4 DIR: Direction of transaction
This bit is written by the hardware according to the direction of the successful transaction,
which generated the interrupt request.
If DIR bit = 0, VTTX bit is set in the USB_CHEPnR register related to the interrupting
endpoint. The interrupting transaction is of IN type (data transmitted by the USB peripheral to
the host PC).
If DIR bit = 1, VTRX bit or both VTTX/VTRX are set in the USB_CHEPnR register related to
the interrupting endpoint. The interrupting transaction is of OUT type (data received by the
USB peripheral from the host PC) or two pending transactions are waiting to be processed.
This information can be used by the application software to access the USB_CHEPnR bits
related to the triggering transaction since it represents the direction having the interrupt
pending. This bit is read-only.
Bits 3:0 IDN[3:0]: Device Endpoint / host channel identification number
These bits are written by the hardware according to the host channel or device endpoint
number, which generated the interrupt request. If several endpoint/channel transactions are
pending, the hardware writes the identification number related to the endpoint/channel
having the highest priority defined in the following way: two levels are defined, in order of
priority: isochronous and double-buffered bulk channels/endpoints are considered first and
then the others are examined. If more than one endpoint/channel from the same set is
requesting an interrupt, the IDN bits in USB_ISTR register are assigned according to the
lowest requesting register, CHEP0R having the highest priority followed by CHEP1R and so
on. The application software can assign a register to each endpoint/channel according to this
priority scheme, so as to order the concurring endpoint/channel requests in a suitable way.
These bits are read only.

RM0456 Rev 6