3291

USB on-the-go full-speed (OTG_FS)

RM0456

Bit 31 EPENA: Endpoint enable
The application sets this bit to start transmitting data on an endpoint.
The core clears this bit before setting any of the following interrupts on this endpoint:
– SETUP phase done
– Endpoint disabled
– Transfer completed
Bit 30 EPDIS: Endpoint disable
The application sets this bit to stop transmitting/receiving data on an endpoint, even before
the transfer for that endpoint is complete. The application must wait for the endpoint
disabled interrupt before treating the endpoint as disabled. The core clears this bit before
setting the endpoint disabled interrupt. The application must set this bit only if endpoint
enable is already set for this endpoint.
Bit 29 SODDFRM: Set odd frame
Applies to isochronous IN and OUT endpoints only.
Writing to this field sets the Even/Odd frame (EONUM) field to odd frame.
Bit 28 SD0PID: Set DATA0 PID
Applies to interrupt/bulk IN endpoints only.
Writing to this field sets the endpoint data PID (DPID) field in this register to DATA0.
SEVNFRM: Set even frame
Applies to isochronous IN endpoints only.
Writing to this field sets the Even/Odd frame (EONUM) field to even frame.
Bit 27 SNAK: Set NAK
A write to this bit sets the NAK bit for the endpoint.
Using this bit, the application can control the transmission of NAK handshakes on an
endpoint. The core can also set this bit for OUT endpoints on a transfer completed interrupt,
or after a SETUP is received on the endpoint.
Bit 26 CNAK: Clear NAK
A write to this bit clears the NAK bit for the endpoint.
Bits 25:22 TXFNUM[3:0]: Tx FIFO number
These bits specify the FIFO number associated with this endpoint. Each active IN endpoint
must be programmed to a separate FIFO number.
This field is valid only for IN endpoints.
Bit 21 STALL: STALL handshake
Applies to non-control, non-isochronous IN endpoints only (access type is rw).
The application sets this bit to stall all tokens from the USB host to this endpoint. If a NAK
bit, Global IN NAK, or Global OUT NAK is set along with this bit, the STALL bit takes priority.
Only the application can clear this bit, never the core.
Bit 20 Reserved, must be kept at reset value.
Bits 19:18 EPTYP[1:0]: Endpoint type
This is the transfer type supported by this logical endpoint.
00: Control
01: Isochronous
10: Bulk
11: Interrupt