RM0456 Rev 6

RM0456

Low-power timer (LPTIM)
Figure 749. PWM mode with immediate update versus preloaded update
Write to CCRx

Write to CCRx

Write to CCRx

LPTIM_CNT

LPTIM_CCRx

PWM mode with
immediate update
PRELOAD = 0

OCx

PWM mode with
preloaded update
PRELOAD = 1

OCx
MSv50938V2

Note:

For both PWM modes, the compare match, auto-reload match, and the update event flags
are set one LPTIM counter cycle later after the corresponding event, the OCxREF level is
also changed one LPTIM counter cycle later after the corresponding event. For instance
when the LPTIM_CCRx is set to 3 the CCxIF is set when the LPTIM_CNT = 4. Figure 747
illustrates this behavior.

58.4.20

Autonomous mode
When clocked by oscillators available in this mode (refer to RCC), the LPTIM can operate in
autonomous mode, remaining then fully functional in Stop mode where the APB clock is
stopped. The APB clock is requested by the peripheral each time a data must be transferred
from or to the SRAM. Once the APB clock is received by the peripheral, either an interrupt
or a DMA request is generated, depending on the LPTIM configuration.
In order to offload the CPU (in Run mode) or to avoid to wake it up when in Stop mode, it is
possible to use LPTIM DMA requests to transfer the captured values when in input capture
mode or to update LPTIM registers when in PWM mode.
When in Stop mode, the LPTIM counter can be automatically started after the detection of
an active edge on one of its external input triggers.

Input capture mode
To operate autonomously in Stop mode, the input capture DMA request must be enabled by
setting the CCxDE bit in the LPTIM_DIER register.
Each time a counter value is captured and available in the LPTIM_CCRx register, the APB
clock is requested by the peripheral and a DMA request is generated. The captured value is
then transferred to the SRAM. The CCxIF flag is automatically cleared by hardware once
the captured value is read by APB (can be any bus master like CPU or DMA).

PWM mode
The LPTIM can be configured to autonomously change, at each update event, the output
waveform pulse width and/or the duty cycle without any CPU intervention. To enable this
autonomous mode, the corresponding UEDE bit must be set in the LPTIM_DIER register.

RM0456 Rev 6