RM0456 Rev 6

RM0456

Reset and clock control (RCC)

Bit 17 RAMCFGSMEN: RAMCFG clock enable during Sleep and Stop modes
This bit is set and cleared by software.
0: RAMCFG clocks disabled by the clock gating during Sleep and Stop modes
1: RAMCFG clocks enabled by the clock gating during Sleep and Stop modes
Bit 16 TSCSMEN: TSC clocks enable during Sleep and Stop modes
This bit is set and cleared by software.
0: TSC clocks disabled by the clock gating during Sleep and Stop modes
1: TSC clocks enabled by the clock gating during Sleep and Stop modes
Bit 15 JPEGSMEN: JPEG clocks enable during Sleep and Stop modes
This bit is set and cleared by software.
0: JPEG clocks disabled by the clock gating during Sleep and Stop modes
1: JPEG clocks enabled by the clock gating during Sleep and Stop modes
Note: This bit is only available on some devices in the STM32U5 Series. Refer to the device
datasheet for availability of its associated peripheral. If not present, consider this bit as
reserved and keep it at reset value.
Bits 14:13 Reserved, must be kept at reset value.
Bit 12 CRCSMEN: CRC clocks enable during Sleep and Stop modes
This bit is set and cleared by software.
0: CRC clocks disabled by the clock gating during Sleep and Stop modes
1: CRC clocks enabled by the clock gating during Sleep and Stop modes
Bits 11:9 Reserved, must be kept at reset value.
Bit 8 FLASHSMEN: FLASH clocks enable during Sleep and Stop modes
This bit is set and cleared by software.
0: FLASH clocks disabled by the clock gating during Sleep and Stop modes
1: FLASH clocks enabled by the clock gating during Sleep and Stop modes
Bits 7:4 Reserved, must be kept at reset value.
Bit 3 MDF1SMEN: MDF1 clocks enable during Sleep and Stop modes.
This bit is set and cleared by software.
0: MDF1 clocks disabled by the clock gating during Sleep and Stop modes
1: MDF1 clocks enabled by the clock gating during Sleep and Stop modes
Note: This bit must be set to allow the peripheral to wake up from Stop modes.
Bit 2 FMACSMEN: FMAC clocks enable during Sleep and Stop modes.
This bit is set and cleared by software.
0: FMAC clocks disabled by the clock gating during Sleep and Stop modes
1: FMAC clocks enabled by the clock gating during Sleep and Stop modes
Bit 1 CORDICSMEN: CORDIC clocks enable during Sleep and Stop modes
This bit is set and cleared by software during Sleep mode.
0: CORDIC clocks disabled by the clock gating during Sleep and Stop modes
1: CORDIC clocks enabled by the clock gating during Sleep and Stop modes
Bit 0 GPDMA1SMEN: GPDMA1 clocks enable during Sleep and Stop modes
This bit is set and cleared by software.
0: GPDMA1 clocks disabled by the clock gating during Sleep and Stop modes
1: GPDMA1 clocks enabled by the clock gating during Sleep and Stop modes
Note: This bit must be set to allow the peripheral to wake up from Stop modes.

RM0456 Rev 6