2902

Universal synchronous/asynchronous receiver transmitter (USART/UART)

RM0456

Bits 31:26 Reserved, must be kept at reset value.
Bit 25 TCBGT: Transmission complete before guard time flag
This bit is set when the last data written in the USART_TDR has been transmitted correctly
out of the shift register.
It is set by hardware in smartcard mode, if the transmission of a frame containing data has
completed, and if the smartcard did not send back any NACK. An interrupt is generated if
TCBGTIE = 1 in the USART_CR3 register.
This bit is cleared by software, by writing 1 to the TCBGTCF in the USART_ICR register or
by a write to the USART_TDR register.
0: Transmission has not completed or transmission has completed unsuccessfully (that is, a
NACK is received from the card)
1: Transmission has not completed successfully (before Guard time completion and there is
no NACK from the smart card).
Note: If the USART does not support the smartcard mode, this bit is reserved and kept at
reset value. If the USART supports the smartcard mode and the smartcard mode is
enabled, the TCBGT reset value is 1. Refer to Section 66.4: USART implementation.
Bits 24:23 Reserved, must be kept at reset value.
Bit 22 REACK: Receive enable acknowledge flag
This bit is set/reset by hardware, when the Receive Enable value is taken into account by
the USART.
It can be used to verify that the USART is ready for reception before entering low-power
mode.
Note: If the USART does not support the wake-up from Stop feature, this bit is reserved and
kept at reset value. Refer to Section 66.4: USART implementation.
Bit 21 TEACK: Transmit enable acknowledge flag
This bit is set/reset by hardware, when the Transmit Enable value is taken into account by
the USART.
It can be used when an idle frame request is generated by writing TE = 0, followed by
TE = 1 in the USART_CR1 register, in order to respect the TE = 0 minimum period.
Bit 20 Reserved, must be kept at reset value.
Bit 19 RWU: Receiver wake-up from mute mode
This bit indicates if the USART is in mute mode. It is cleared/set by hardware when a wakeup/mute sequence is recognized. The mute mode control sequence (address or IDLE) is
selected by the WAKE bit in the USART_CR1 register.
When wake-up on idle mode is selected, this bit can only be set by software, writing 1 to the
MMRQ bit in the USART_RQR register.
0: Receiver in active mode
1: Receiver in mute mode
Note: If the USART does not support the wake-up from Stop feature, this bit is reserved and
kept at reset value. Refer to Section 66.4: USART implementation.
Bit 18 SBKF: Send break flag
This bit indicates that a send break character was requested. It is set by software, by writing
1 to the SBKRQ bit in the USART_CR3 register. It is automatically reset by hardware during
the stop bit of break transmission.
0: No break character transmitted
1: Break character transmitted