RM0456 Rev 6

RM0456

Universal synchronous/asynchronous receiver transmitter (USART/UART)

Bit 9 PS: Parity selection
This bit selects the odd or even parity when the parity generation/detection is enabled (PCE
bit set). It is set and cleared by software. The parity is selected after the current byte.
0: Even parity
1: Odd parity
This bitfield can only be written when the USART is disabled (UE = 0).
Bit 8 PEIE: PE interrupt enable
This bit is set and cleared by software.
0: Interrupt inhibited
1: USART interrupt generated whenever PE = 1 in the USART_ISR register
Bit 7 TXEIE: Transmit data register empty
This bit is set and cleared by software.
0: Interrupt inhibited
1: USART interrupt generated whenever TXE = 1 in the USART_ISR register
Bit 6 TCIE: Transmission complete interrupt enable
This bit is set and cleared by software.
0: Interrupt inhibited
1: USART interrupt generated whenever TC = 1 in the USART_ISR register
Bit 5 RXNEIE: Receive data register not empty
This bit is set and cleared by software.
0: Interrupt inhibited
1: USART interrupt generated whenever ORE = 1 or RXNE = 1 in the USART_ISR register
Bit 4 IDLEIE: IDLE interrupt enable
This bit is set and cleared by software.
0: Interrupt inhibited
1: USART interrupt generated whenever IDLE = 1 in the USART_ISR register
Bit 3 TE: Transmitter enable
This bit enables the transmitter. When the autonomous mode is not used, TE bit is set and
cleared by software. When the autonomous mode is used, TE bit becomes a status bit, which
is set and cleared by hardware.
0: Transmitter is disabled
1: Transmitter is enabled
Note: When the USART acts as a transmitted, a low pulse on the TE bit (0 followed by 1)
sends a preamble (idle line) after the current word, except in smartcard mode. In order
to generate an idle character, the TE must not be immediately written to 1. To ensure the
required duration, the software can poll the TEACK bit in the USART_ISR register.
In smartcard mode, when TE is set, there is a 1 bit-time delay before the transmission
starts.
Bit 2 RE: Receiver enable
This bit enables the receiver. It is set and cleared by software.
0: Receiver is disabled
1: Receiver is enabled and begins searching for a start bit

RM0456 Rev 6