RM0456 Rev 6

RM0456

Inter-integrated circuit interface (I2C)
If the DMA requests are enabled, the data are DMA-transferred to or from the SRAM, while
the device remains in Stop mode.

Target mode
In target mode, the autonomous mode is enabled in Stop mode if WUPEN = 1 in the
I2C_CR1. This mode is supported only when NOSTRETCH = 0.
The kernel clock is requested by the peripheral on START detection during all the transfer
until the STOP condition occurs, when the target is addressed. If the target is not
addressed, the kernel clock request is released after the address phase.
To optimize the functionality in target mode by using only DMA transfers, it is possible to set
the ADDRACLR and STOPFACLR bits in the I2C_CR1 in order to avoid to serve the
Address match (ADDR) and STOP detection (STOPF) events.
Note:

If the I2C clock is the system clock, or if WUPEN = 0, the internal oscillator is not switched
on after a START is received in target mode.

Controller mode
In controller mode, a transfer can be automatically launched when an asynchronous trigger
is detected in Run, Sleep or Stop mode. The trigger, selected by TRIGSEL in the
I2C_AUTOCR register, generates a kernel clock request to allow the transfer, and launches
a START condition and the I2C transfer as defined in the I2C_CR2 register. The kernel clock
is requested until the STOP condition occurs.
To avoid waking up the CPU too often, it is possible to replace some interrupts by DMA
requests, to make some control register write actions. In controller mode, transfer complete
(TC) and transfer complete reload (TCR) events can generate a DMA request when the
corresponding TCDMAEN or TCRDMAEN bits of the I2C_AUTOCR register are set.
Consequently, the I2C_CR2 register can be written thanks to a DMA transfer, to program a
new transfer (in TC event) or to reload the number of bytes (in TCR event).
In case a trigger is enabled, but the application needs to take the control back to start a
different transfer, the following steps are required before writing in the I2C_CR2 register to
launch the new transfer:
1.

Wait for BUSY = 0 in the I2C_ISR register

2.

Clear the TRIGEN bit of the I2C_AUTOCR register

3.

Wait for longer than tBUF (bus free time between a STOP and a START condition)

4.

Wait for BUSY = 0 in the I2C_ISR register

Caution:

When the device is in Stop mode, the I2C peripheral receives its kernel clock only when it is
implicated in the transfer. Consequently, features such as timeouts and bus idle detection
are not reliable in Stop mode.

Caution:

The digital filter is not compatible with the functionality in Stop mode. Before entering Stop
mode with the WUPEN bit set, deactivate the digital filter, by writing zero to the DNF[3:0]
bitfield.

Caution:

Clock stretching must be enabled (NOSTRETCH = 0) to ensure proper operation of the
wake-up from Stop mode feature.

Caution:

If wake-up from Stop mode is disabled (WUPEN = 0), the I2C peripheral must be disabled
before entering Stop mode (PE = 0).

RM0456 Rev 6