3020

Serial audio interface (SAI)

RM0456

depending on the state of bit TRIS in the SAI_xCR2 register (refer to FS signal role). In
reception mode, the remaining bit is ignored.
If bit NODIV is cleared, (FRL+1) must be equal to a power of 2, from 8 to 256, to ensure
that an audio frame contains an integer number of MCLK pulses per bit clock cycle.
If bit NODIV is set, the (FRL+1) field can take any value from 8 to 256. Refer to
Section 69.4.8: SAI clock generator”
•

Slave mode
The audio frame length is mainly used to specify to the slave the number of bit clock
cycles per audio frame sent by the external master. It is used mainly to detect from the
master any anticipated or late occurrence of the frame synchronization signal during an
ongoing audio frame. In this case, an error is generated. For more details, refer to
Section 69.4.14: Error flags.
In slave mode, there are no constraints on the FRL[7:0] configuration in the
SAI_xFRCR register.

The number of bits in the frame is equal to FRL[7:0] + 1.
The minimum number of bits to transfer in an audio frame is 8.

Frame synchronization polarity
The FSPOL bit in the SAI_xFRCR register sets the active polarity of the FS pin from which a
frame is started. The start of the frame is edge sensitive.
In slave mode, the audio block waits for a valid frame to start transmitting or receiving. The
start of the frame is synchronized to this signal. It is effective only if the start of the frame is
not detected during an ongoing communication and assimilated to an anticipated start of
frame (refer to Section 69.4.14: Error flags).
In master mode, the frame synchronization is sent continuously each time an audio frame is
complete until the SAIEN bit in the SAI_xCR1 register is cleared. If no data are present in
the FIFO at the end of the previous audio frame, an underrun condition is managed as
described in Section 69.4.14: Error flags), but the audio communication flow is not
interrupted.

Frame synchronization active level length
The FSALL[6:0] bits of the SAI_xFRCR register enable the configuration of the length of the
active level of the frame synchronization signal. The length can be set from 1- to 128-bit
clock cycles.
As an example, the active length can be half of the frame length in I2S, LSB or MSB-justified
modes, or one-bit wide for PCM/DSP or TDM.

Frame synchronization offset
Depending on the audio protocol targeted in the application, the frame synchronization
signal can be asserted when transmitting the last bit or the first bit of the audio frame (this is
the case in I2S standard protocol and in MSB-justified protocol, respectively). The FSOFF
bit in the SAI_xFRCR register enables the possibility to choose between two configurations.