RM0456 Rev 6

RM0456

Embedded flash memory (FLASH)

Bit 30 OPTLOCK: Option lock
This bit is set only. When set, all bits concerning user options in FLASH_NSCR register are
locked. This bit is cleared by hardware after detecting the unlock sequence. LOCK bit
in FLASH_NSCR must be cleared before doing the unlock sequence for OPTLOCK bit.
In case of an unsuccessful unlock operation, this bit remains set until the next reset.
Bits 29:28 Reserved, must be kept at reset value.
Bit 27 OBL_LAUNCH: Force the option-byte loading
When set to 1, this bit forces the option byte reloading. This bit is cleared only when the
option-byte loading is complete. It cannot be written if OPTLOCK is set.
0: Option-byte loading complete
1: Option-byte loading requested
Bit 26 Reserved, must be kept at reset value.
Bit 25 ERRIE: Nonsecure error interrupt enable
This bit enables the interrupt generation when OPERR = 1 in FLASH_NSSR .
0: Nonsecure OPERR error interrupt disabled
1: Nonsecure OPERR error interrupt enabled
Bit 24 EOPIE: Nonsecure end of operation interrupt enable
This bit enables the interrupt generation when EOP = 1 in FLASH_NSSR.
0: Nonsecure EOP Interrupt disabled
1: Nonsecure EOP Interrupt enabled
Bits 23:18 Reserved, must be kept at reset value.
Bit 17 OPTSTRT: Options modification start
This bit triggers an options operation when set. It can not be written if OPTLOCK bit is set.
This bit is set only by software, and is cleared when the BSY bit is cleared in FLASH_NSSR.
Bit 16 STRT: Nonsecure start
This bit triggers a nonsecure erase operation when set. If MER1, MER2, and PER bits are
reset and the STRT bit is set, PGSERR is set in FLASH_NSSR (this condition is forbidden).
This bit is set only by software and is cleared when BSY is cleared in FLASH_NSSR.
Bit 15 MER2: Nonsecure bank 2 mass erase
This bit triggers the bank 2 nonsecure mass erase (all bank 2 user pages) when set.
Bit 14 BWR: Nonsecure burst write programming mode
When set, this bit selects the burst write programming mode.
Bits 13:12 Reserved, must be kept at reset value.
Bit 11 BKER: Nonsecure bank selection for page erase
0: Bank 1 selected for nonsecure page erase
1: Bank 2 selected for nonsecure page erase

RM0456 Rev 6