For isochronous OUT endpoints, the XFRC interrupt (in OTG_DOEPINTx) may not
always be asserted. If the core drops isochronous OUT data packets, the application
may fail to detect the XFRC interrupt (OTG_DOEPINTx) under the following
circumstances:
–

When the receive FIFO cannot accommodate the complete ISO OUT data packet,
the core drops the received ISO OUT data

–

When the isochronous OUT data packet is received with CRC errors

–

When the isochronous OUT token received by the core is corrupted

–

When the application is very slow in reading the data from the receive FIFO

When the core detects an end of periodic frame before transfer completion to all
isochronous OUT endpoints, it asserts the incomplete isochronous OUT data interrupt
(INCOMPISOOUT in OTG_GINTSTS), indicating that an XFRC interrupt (in
OTG_DOEPINTx) is not asserted on at least one of the isochronous OUT endpoints. At

RM0456 Rev 6

RM0456

USB on-the-go high-speed (OTG_HS)
this point, the endpoint with the incomplete transfer remains enabled, but no active
transfers remain in progress on this endpoint on the USB.
Application programming sequence:
1.

Asserting the INCOMPISOOUT interrupt (OTG_GINTSTS) indicates that in the current
frame, at least one isochronous OUT endpoint has an incomplete transfer.

2.

If this occurs because isochronous OUT data is not completely emptied from the
endpoint, the application must ensure that the application empties all isochronous OUT
data (data and status) from the receive FIFO before proceeding.
–

3.

When all data are emptied from the receive FIFO, the application can detect the
XFRC interrupt (OTG_DOEPINTx). In this case, the application must re-enable
the endpoint to receive isochronous OUT data in the next frame.

When it receives an INCOMPISOOUT interrupt (in OTG_GINTSTS), the application
must read the control registers of all isochronous OUT endpoints (OTG_DOEPCTLx) to
determine which endpoints had an incomplete transfer in the current microframe. An
endpoint transfer is incomplete if both the following conditions are met:
–

EONUM bit (in OTG_DOEPCTLx) = FNSOF[0] (in OTG_DSTS)

–

EPENA = 1 (in OTG_DOEPCTLx)

4.

The previous step must be performed before the SOF interrupt (in OTG_GINTSTS) is
detected, to ensure that the current frame number is not changed.

5.

For isochronous OUT endpoints with incomplete transfers, the application must discard
the data in the memory and disable the endpoint by setting the EPDIS bit in
OTG_DOEPCTLx.

6.

Wait for the EPDISD interrupt (in OTG_DOEPINTx) and enable the endpoint to receive
new data in the next frame.
–

•

Because the core can take some time to disable the endpoint, the application may
not be able to receive the data in the next frame after receiving bad isochronous
data.

Stalling a non-isochronous OUT endpoint

This section describes how the application can stall a non-isochronous endpoint.
1.
2.

Put the core in the Global OUT NAK mode.
Disable the required endpoint
–

When disabling the endpoint, instead of setting the SNAK bit in OTG_DOEPCTL,
set STALL = 1 (in OTG_DOEPCTL).
The STALL bit always takes precedence over the NAK bit.

3.

When the application is ready to end the STALL handshake for the endpoint, the
STALL bit (in OTG_DOEPCTLx) must be cleared.

4.

If the application is setting or clearing a STALL for an endpoint due to a
SetFeature.Endpoint Halt or ClearFeature.Endpoint Halt command, the STALL bit must
be set or cleared before the application sets up the status stage transfer on the control
endpoint.

Examples
This section describes and depicts some fundamental transfer types and scenarios.
•

Bulk OUT transaction

RM0456 Rev 6