RM0456 Rev 6

RM0456

68.5.3

Serial peripheral interface (SPI)

CRC computation
Two separate CRC calculators are implemented to check the reliability of transmitted and
received data. The CRC polynomial configuration depends on the instance. Refer to
Section 68.3: SPI implementation for more information.
The length of the polynomial is defined by the most significant bit of the value stored in the
SPI_CRCPOLY register. It must be greater than the data frame size (in bits) defined in the
DSIZE[4:0] bitfield of the SPI_CFG1 register. To obtain a full-size polynomial, the polynomial
length must exceed the maximum data size of the peripheral instance, and the CRC33_17
bit of the SPI_CR1 register must be set to select the most significant bit of the polynomial
string.
For example, to select the standard CRC16-CCITT (XMODEM) polynomial x^16 + x^12 +
x^5 + 1:
•

For a 32-bit instance: write 0x11021 to the SPI_CRCPOLY register and clear the
CRC33_17 bit.

•

For a 16-bit instance: to obtain the full size, write 0x1021, and set the CRC33_17 bit.

The CRCSIZE field of the SPI_CFG1 register then defines how many most significant bits
from the CRC calculation registers are transferred and compared as CRC frame. It is
defined independently from the data frame length, but it must be either equal or an integer
multiple of the data frame size. Its size cannot exceed the maximum data size of the
instance.
To fully benefit from the CRC calculation capability, the polynomial length setting must
correspond to the CRC frame size, else the bits unused at the calculation are transferred
and expected all zero at the end of the CRC frame if its size is set greater than the
polynomial length.

CRC principle
The CRC calculation is enabled by setting the CRCEN bit of the SPI_CFG1 register before
the SPI is enabled (SPE = 1). The CRC value is then calculated using the CRC polynomial
defined by the CRCPOLY register and CRC33_17 bit. When SPI is enabled, the CRC
polynomial can be changed but only in the case when there is no traffic on the bus.
The CRC computation is done, bit by bit, on the sampling clock edge defined by the CPHA
and CPOL bits of the SPI_CR1 register. The calculated CRC value is checked automatically
at the end of the data block defined by the SPI_CR2 register exclusively.
When a mismatch is detected between the CRC calculated internally on the received data
and the CRC received from the transmitter, a CRCE flag is set to indicate a data corruption
error. The right procedure for handling the CRC depends on the SPI configuration and the
chosen transfer management.

CRC transfer management
Communication starts and continues normally until the last data frame has been sent or
received in the SPI_DR register.
The length of the transfer must be defined by TSIZE. When the desired number of data is
transferred, the TXCRC is transmitted and the data received on the line are compared to the
RXCRC value.
Whatever the CRCSIZE configuration, TSIZE cannot be set to 0xFFFF for a full-featured
instance, and to 0x3FF for a limited-featured instance, if CRC is enabled.

RM0456 Rev 6