Longest wake-up time between: MSIS or HSI16 wake-up time and FLASH wake-up time from
Stop 0 mode.

RM0456 Rev 6

RM0456

10.7.7

Power control (PWR)

Stop 1 mode
The Stop 1 mode is the same as Stop 0 mode except that the regulator is in low-power
mode (see the table below for details on how to enter and exit Stop 1 mode).
Table 103. Stop 1 mode

Stop 1 mode

Description
WFI (wait for interrupt) or WFE (wait for event) while:
– SLEEPDEEP bit is set in Cortex-M33 system control register
– No interrupt (for WFI) or event (for WFE) pending
– LPMS = 001 in PWR_CR1

Mode entry

On Return from ISR while:
– SLEEPDEEP bit is set in Cortex-M33 system control register
– SLEEPONEXIT = 1
– No interrupt pending
– LPMS = 001 in PWR_CR1
Note: To enter Stop 1 mode, all EXTI line pending bits (in EXTI_RPR1), and the peripheral flags
generating wake-up interrupts must be cleared. Otherwise, the Stop 1 mode entry
procedure is ignored and the program execution continues.
If WFI or Return from ISR was used for entry
- any EXTI line configured in interrupt mode (the corresponding EXTI interrupt vector must be
enabled in the NVIC). The interrupt source can be external interrupts or peripherals with
wake-up capability (see Table 187: STM32U5 series vector table).
- RTC, TAMP, IWDG interrupts, or any other peripheral interrupt occurring when the AHB/APB
clocks are present due to an autonomous peripheral clock request (the peripheral vector must
be enabled in the NVIC)
If WFE was used for entry and SEVONPEND = 0:
- any EXTI line configured in event mode (see Section 23.3: EXTI functional description)

Mode exit

If WFE was used for entry and SEVONPEND = 1:
- any EXTI line configured in interrupt mode (even if the corresponding EXTI interrupt vector is
disabled in the NVIC). The interrupt source can be external interrupts or peripherals with
wake-up capability (see Table 187: STM32U5 series vector table).
- any EXTI line configured in event mode (see Section 23.3: EXTI functional description)
- RTC, TAMP, IWDG interrupts, or any other peripheral interrupt occurring when the AHB/APB
clocks are present due to an autonomous peripheral clock request
Note: All peripheral clocks must be enabled to allow this peripheral to generate a wake-up from
Stop interrupt ([PERIPH]EN, [PERIPH]SMEN and [PERIPH]AMEN bits must be set in the
RCC, and a functional independent clock must be selected).

wake-up latency

10.7.8

Longest wake-up time between: MSIS or HSI16 wake-up time and regulator wake-up time from
low-power mode + FLASH wake-up time from Stop 1 mode.

Stop 2 mode
The Stop 2 mode is similar to Stop 1 except that most of the core domain is put in a lower
leakage mode. Only the part of the core domain embedding AHB3 and APB3 peripherals
remains fully powered, allowing those peripherals to be functional.
The AHB3 and APB3 peripherals with the autonomous mode capability can switch on
HSI16, or MSIS, or MSIK for transferring data (see Section 10.7.2 for more details).

RM0456 Rev 6