1177

Hexadeca-SPI interface (HSPI)

RM0456

5.

Specify the frame timing in HSPI_WTCR for write operation.

6.

Specify the frame format in HSPI_WCCR for write operation.

7.

Specify the instruction in HSPI_WIR.

8.

Specify the optional alternate byte to be sent right after the address phase in
HSPI_WABR for write operation.

All the configuration operations must be completed (ensured by checking BUSY = 0) before
the first access to the memory area: any register write operation when BUSY = 1 have no
effect and is not signaled with an error response. On the first access, the HSPI becomes
busy, and no further configuration is allowed. Then, the only way to get BUSY low is to clear
the ENABLE bit or to abort by setting the ABORT bit.

HSPI delayed data sampling when no DQS is used
By default, when no DQS is used, the HSPI samples the data driven by the external device
one half of a CLK cycle after the external device drives the signal.
In case of any external signal delays, it may be useful to sample the data later. Using
SSHIFT in HSPI_TCR, the sampling of the data can be shifted by half of a CLK cycle.
The firmware must clear SSHIFT when the data phase is configured in DTR mode
(DDTR = 1).

HSPI delayed data sampling when DQS is used
When external DQS is used as a sampling clock, it is shifted precisely by one quarter of the
SPI clock cycle, for all frequencies above freq_min, to compensate the data propagation
delay in the “high-speed interface” when the product embeds one.

30.4.16

HSPI HyperBus protocol configuration
Indirect mode configuration (HyperBus)
When FMODE[1:0] = 00, the indirect-write mode is selected and data can be sent to the
external device. When FMODE[1:0] = 01, the indirect-read mode is selected where data can
be read from the external device. ADMODE must be configured with a value different from
000 (for instance ADMODE = 100).
When the HSPI is used in indirect mode, the frames are constructed in the following way:
1.

Specify a number of data bytes to read or write in HSPI_DLR.

2.

Specify the targeted address in HSPI_AR.

3.

Enable the DMA channel if needed.

4.

Read/write the data from/to the FIFO through HSPI_DR (if no DMA usage).

In indirect-read mode, the command sequence starts as soon as the address is updated
with a write to HSPI_AR.
In indirect-write mode, the communication start is triggered by a write in the FIFO through
HSPI_DR.

Memory-mapped mode configuration (HyperBus)
In memory-mapped mode, the external device is seen as an internal memory but with some
latency during the accesses. Read and write operations are allowed to the external device in
this mode.