2952

Serial peripheral interface (SPI)

68.5.2

RM0456

SPI error flags
An SPI interrupt is generated if one of the following error flags is set and the interrupt is
enabled by setting the corresponding interrupt enable bit.

Overrun flag (OVR)
An overrun condition occurs when data are received by a master or slave and the RxFIFO
has not enough space to store these received data. This can happen if the software or the
DMA did not have enough time to read the previously received data (stored in the RxFIFO).
When an overrun condition occurs, the OVR flag is set and the newly received value does
not overwrite the previous one in the RxFIFO. The newly received value is discarded and all
data transmitted subsequently are lost. The OVR flag triggers an interrupt if the OVRIE bit is
set. Clearing the OVR bit is done by setting the OVRC bit of the SPI_IFCR register. Clearing
the RxFIFO content by performing software reads before the OVR bit is cleared reduces the
risk of any immediate repetition of its next overrun. It is suggested to release the RxFIFO
space as much as possible, this means to read out all the available data packets based on
RXP flag indication.
In master mode, the user can prevent the RxFIFO overrun by automatic communication
suspend (MASRX bit).

Underrun flag (UDR)
In a slave-transmitting mode, the underrun condition is captured internally by hardware if no
data is available for transmission in the slave TxFIFO commonly. The UDR flag setting is
then propagated into the status register by hardware (see note below). UDR triggers an
interrupt if the UDRIE bit is set.
Underrun detection logic and system behavior depend on the UDRCFG bit. When an
underrun is detected by the slave, it can provide out either a constant pattern stored by the
user at the UDRDR register or the data received previously from the master. When the first
configuration (UDRCFG = 0) is applied, the underrun condition is evaluated whenever the
master starts to communicate a new data frame while TxFIFO is empty. Then single
additional dummy (accidental) data is always inserted between the last valid data and the
constant pattern defined at the UDRDR register (see Figure 858). Assuming that TxFIFO is
not empty when the master starts the communication, the underrun condition is evaluated
just once the FIFO becomes empty during the next data flow. Valid data from TxFIFO is then
upended by the lastly received data immediately.
The standard transmission is reenabled once the software clears the UDR flag and this
clearing is propagated into SPI logic by hardware. Writing some data to the TxFIFO before
the UVR bit is cleared reduces the risk of any immediate repetition of its next underrun.
The data transferred by the slave is unpredictable especially when the transfer starts or
continues while TxFIFO is empty and the underrun condition is either not yet captured or
just cleared. Typically, this is the case when SPI is just enabled or when a transfer with a
defined size just starts. First bits can be corrupted in this case, as well, when the slave
software writes the first data into the empty TxFIFO too close prior to starting the data
transfer (propagation of the data into TxFIFO takes a few APB clock cycles).