2902

Universal synchronous/asynchronous receiver transmitter (USART/UART)

RM0456

Bit 14 ABRE: Auto baud rate error
This bit is set by hardware if the baud rate measurement failed (baud rate out of range or
character comparison failed)
It is cleared by software, by writing 1 to the ABRRQ bit in the USART_RQR register.
Note: If the USART does not support the auto baud rate feature, this bit is reserved and kept
at reset value.
Bit 13 UDR: SPI slave underrun error flag
In slave transmission mode, this flag is set when the first clock pulse for data transmission
appears while the software has not yet loaded any value into USART_TDR. This flag is
reset by setting UDRCF bit in the USART_ICR register.
0: No underrun error
1: underrun error
Note: If the USART does not support the SPI slave mode, this bit is reserved and kept at
reset value. Refer to Section 66.4: USART implementation.
Bit 12 EOBF: End of block flag
This bit is set by hardware when a complete block has been received (for example T = 1
smartcard mode). The detection is done when the number of received bytes (from the start
of the block, including the prologue) is equal or greater than BLEN + 4.
An interrupt is generated if EOBIE = 1 in the USART_CR1 register.
It is cleared by software, writing 1 to EOBCF in the USART_ICR register.
0: End of block not reached
1: End of block (number of characters) reached
Note: If smartcard mode is not supported, this bit is reserved and kept at reset value. Refer to
Section 66.4: USART implementation.
Bit 11 RTOF: Receiver timeout
This bit is set by hardware when the timeout value, programmed in the RTOR register has
lapsed, without any communication. It is cleared by software, writing 1 to the RTOCF bit in
the USART_ICR register.
An interrupt is generated if RTOIE = 1 in the USART_CR2 register.
In smartcard mode, the timeout corresponds to the CWT or BWT timings.
0: Timeout value not reached
1: Timeout value reached without any data reception
Note: If a time equal to the value programmed in RTOR register separates 2 characters,
RTOF is not set. If this time exceeds this value + 2 sample times (2/16 or 2/8,
depending on the oversampling method), RTOF flag is set.
The counter counts even if RE = 0 but RTOF is set only when RE = 1. If the timeout has
already elapsed when RE is set, then RTOF is set.
If the USART does not support the Receiver timeout feature, this bit is reserved and
kept at reset value.
Bit 10 CTS: CTS flag
This bit is set/reset by hardware. It is an inverted copy of the status of the CTS input pin.
0: CTS line set
1: CTS line reset
Note: If the hardware flow control feature is not supported, this bit is reserved and kept at
reset value.