RM0456 Rev 6

RM0456

Serial peripheral interface (SPI)

Bit 10 CSUSP: master suspend request
This bit reads as zero.
In master mode, when this bit is set by software, the CSTART bit is reset at the end of the
current frame and communication is suspended. The user has to check SUSP flag to check
end of the frame transfer.
The master mode communication must be suspended (using this bit or keeping TXDR
empty) before going to Low-power mode.
After software suspension, SUSP flag must be cleared and SPI disabled and re-enabled
before the next transfer starts.
Bit 9 CSTART: master transfer start
This bit can be set by software if SPI is enabled only to start an SPI communication. it is
cleared by hardware when end of transfer (EOT) flag is set or when a transfer suspend
request is accepted.
In SPI mode, the bit is taken into account at master mode only. If transmission is enabled,
communication starts or continues only if any data is available in the transmission FIFO.
0: master transfer is at idle
1: master transfer is ongoing or temporary suspended by automatic suspend
Bit 8 MASRX: master automatic suspension in Receive mode
This bit is set and cleared by software to control continuous SPI transfer in master receiver
mode and automatic management in order to avoid overrun condition.
When SPI communication is suspended by hardware automatically, it may happen that few
bits of next frame are already clocked out due to internal synchronization delay.
This is why, the automatic suspension is not quite reliable when size of data drops below 8
bits. In this case, a safe suspension can be achieved by combination with delay inserted
between data frames applied when MIDI parameter keeps a non zero value; sum of data size
and the interleaved SPI cycles must always produce interval at length of 8 SPI clock periods
at minimum. After software clearing of the SUSP bit, the communication resumes and
continues by subsequent bits transfer without any next constraint. Before the SUSP bit is
cleared, the user must release the RxFIFO space as much as possible by reading out all the
data packets available at RxFIFO based on the RXP flag indication to prevent any
subsequent suspension.
0: SPI flow/clock generation is continuous, regardless of overrun condition. (data are lost)
1: SPI flow is suspended temporary on RxFIFO full condition, before reaching overrun
condition. The SUSP flag is set when the SPI communication is suspended.
Bits 7:1 Reserved, must be kept at reset value.
Bit 0 SPE: serial peripheral enable
This bit is set by and cleared by software.
When SPE = 1, SPI data transfer is enabled, the SPI_CFG1 and SPI_CFG2 configuration
registers, CRCPOLY, UDRDR, part of the SPI_AUTOCR register and IOLOCK bit in the
SPI_CR1 register are write protected. They can be changed only when SPE = 0.
When SPE = 0 any SPI operation is stopped and disabled, all the pending requests of the
events with enabled interrupt are blocked except the MODF interrupt request (but their
pending still propagates the request of the spi_plck clock), the SS output is deactivated at
master, the RDY signal keeps not ready status at slave, the internal state machine is reseted,
all the FIFOs content is flushed, CRC calculation initialized, receive data register is read zero.
SPE is cleared and cannot be set when MODF error flag is active.
0: Serial peripheral disabled.
1: Serial peripheral enabled

RM0456 Rev 6