3086

FD controller area network (FDCAN)

RM0456

Bit 23 ARA: Access to reserved address
0: No access to reserved address occurred
1: Access to reserved address occurred
Bit 22 PED: Protocol error in data phase (data bit time is used)
0: No protocol error in data phase
1: Protocol error in data phase detected (DLEC[2:0] different from 0 and 7 in FDCAN_PSR)
Bit 21 PEA: Protocol error in arbitration phase (nominal bit time is used)
0: No protocol error in arbitration phase
1: Protocol error in arbitration phase detected (LEC[2:0] different from 0 and 7 in
FDCAN_PSR)
Bit 20 WDI: Watchdog interrupt
0: No message RAM watchdog event occurred
1: Message RAM watchdog event due to missing READY
Bit 19 BO: Bus-off status
0: Bus-off status unchanged
1: Bus-off status changed
Bit 18 EW: Warning status
0: Error-warning status unchanged
1: Error-warning status changed
Bit 17 EP: Error passive
0: Error-passive status unchanged
1: Error-passive status changed
Bit 16 ELO: Error logging overflow
0: CAN error logging counter did not overflow.
1: Overflow of CAN error logging counter occurred.
Bit 15 TOO: Timeout occurred
0: No timeout
1: Timeout reached
Bit 14 MRAF: Message RAM access failure
The flag is set when the Rx handler:
- has not completed acceptance filtering or storage of an accepted message until the
arbitration field of the following message has been received. In this case acceptance
filtering or message storage is aborted and the Rx handler starts processing of the
following message.
- was unable to write a message to the message RAM. In this case message storage is
aborted.
In both cases the FIFO put index is not updated. The partly stored message is overwritten
when the next message is stored to this location.
The flag is also set when the Tx handler was not able to read a message from the message
RAM in time. In this case message transmission is aborted. In case of a Tx handler access
failure, the FDCAN is switched into restricted operation mode (see Restricted operation
mode). To leave restricted operation mode, the host CPU has to clear the ASM of the
FDCAN_CCCR register.
0: No message RAM access failure occurred
1: Message RAM access failure occurred