1599

Multi-function digital filter (MDF)

RM0456

The Synchronous single-shot acquisition mode is selected when ACQMOD[2:0] = 011.
The sequence below shows the most important programming steps (assuming that DFLTEN
bits of the filters are set to 0):
1.

Configure and enable the clock generator (CKGEN), so that the frequency of
mdf_proc_ck clock is compatible with the targeted application (see examples in
Table 381).

2.

Enable the CKGEN and, if needed, enable the MDF_CCK0 and MDF_CCK1 clocks.

3.

Program the wanted filter configuration and set the ACQMOD[2:0] to 011.

4.

Set to 1 the SITFEN bit of the requested data interfaces.

5.

Select the proper trigger source and sensitivity for each filter.

6.

Before setting DFLTEN to 1, wait for DFLTACTIVE = 0: it insures that the previous filter
deactivation sequence has been properly terminated.

7.

Set DFLTEN to 1 for the filters to enable.

8.

Then when the trigger condition is met, the filters start the acquisition and provide one
data to the RXFIFO, then the filters are ready to accept a new trigger.

TRGSENS allows the selection of the trigger edge (rising or falling). The trigger is ignored if
an acquisition is ongoing or if DFLTEN is set to 0.
The figure below shows a simplified example where the trigger logic is sensitive to a rising
edge trigger (TRGSENS = 0). Every time a trigger rising edge is detected with DFLTEN = 1,
an acquisition sequence is triggered. The first samples provided by the filter can be
discarded if needed. At the end of each conversion, the decimation counters and filter taps
are reset. DFLTRUN is set to 0 and the filter is ready to start a new conversion.
Figure 344. Synchronous single-shot mode (ACQMOD[2:0] = 011)
MDF_DFLTxCR.DFLTEN
mdf_trgi[y]
Discard (note)
DFLTx output

X

...

X

Discard (note)

S1

X

...

X OFF
S2
Dropped !

MDF_DFLTxCR.DFLTRUN
MDF_DFLTxCR.DFLTACTIVE

MDF_CCK/CKI
Note: the discard phase is optional.

Note:

MSv62679V1

The acquisition can be stopped by setting DFLTEN back to 0. This resets the filter and
flushes the RXFIFO, so the samples located into the RXFIFO are lost. The ongoing DMA
transfer is properly terminated. DFLTACTIVE goes back to 0 when the filter chain is reset
and the RXFIFO flushed.
Figure 344 shows a case where DFLTEN is cleared to 0 while an acquisition is ongoing:
thus the sample S2 is lost. This situation can be avoided with the following steps: