482

Power control (PWR)

RM0456

All SRAMs and register contents are preserved, but the SRAMs can be totally or partially
switched off to further reduced consumption.
The BOR is always available in Stop 2 mode.

I/O states in Stop 2 mode
In Stop 2 mode, all I/O pins keep the same state as in Run mode.

Entering Stop 2 mode
The MCU enters Stop 2 mode as described in Entering into a low-power mode, when the
SLEEPDEEP bit in the Cortex-M33 system control register is set (see Table 104 for details
on how to enter the Stop 2 mode).
If the flash memory programming is ongoing, the Stop 2 mode entry is delayed until the
memory access is finished.
If an access to the APB domain is ongoing, the Stop 2 mode entry is delayed until the APB
access is finished.
In Stop 2 mode, the following features can be selected by programming individual control
bits:
•

The independent watchdog (IWDG) is started by writing to its key register or by
hardware option. Once started it cannot be stopped except by a reset
(see Section 61.4: IWDG functional description).

•

The real-time clock (RTC) and Tamper (TAMP) kernel clock enabled by the RTCEN bit
in RCC_BDCR.

•

The internal RC oscillator LSI clock or LSI clock divided by 128, is configured by the
LSION and LSIPREDIV bits in RCC_BDCR.

•

The external 32.768 kHz oscillator (LSE) is configured by LSEON in RCC_BDCR.

Several peripherals can be autonomous in Stop 2 mode and can add consumption if they
are enabled (see Section 10.7.2 for more details).
OPAMPs, COMPs, the PVM, and the PVD can be used in Stop 2 mode. If they are not
needed, they must be disabled by software to save their power consumptions.
The ADCx (x = 1, 2, 4), the DAC1 (two channels), the temperature sensor and the
VREFBUF can consume power during Stop 2 mode, unless they are disabled before
entering this mode.
Caution:

All the peripherals that cannot be enabled in Stop 2 mode must be either disabled by
clearing the enable bit in the peripheral itself, or put under reset state by configuring RCC
registers.

Exiting Stop 2 mode
The MCU exits Stop 2 mode as defined in Exiting a low-power mode (see Table 104 for
details on how to exit Stop 2 mode).
When exiting Stop 2 mode by issuing an interrupt or a wake-up event, HSI16 is selected as
system clock if the bit STOPWUCK is set in RCC_CFGR1. MSIS is selected as system
clock if STOPWUCK is cleared. The MSI selection allows a wake-up at higher frequency
(up to 24 MHz).