2952

Serial peripheral interface (SPI)

RM0456

Bit 6 OVR: overrun
This bit is cleared when SPI is re-enabled or by writing 1 to the OVRC bit of the SPI_IFCR
optionally.
0: no overrun
1: overrun detected
Bit 5 UDR: underrun
This bit is cleared when SPI is re-enabled or by writing 1 to the UDRC bit of the SPI_IFCR
optionally.
0: no underrun
1: underrun detected
Note: In SPI mode, the UDR flag applies to slave mode only.
Bit 4 TXTF: transmission transfer filled
TXTF is set by hardware as soon as all of the data packets in a transfer have been submitted
for transmission by application software or DMA, that is when TSIZE number of data have
been pushed into the TxFIFO.
This bit is cleared by software write 1 to the TXTFC bit of the SPI_IFCR exclusively.
The TXTF flag triggers an interrupt if the TXTFIE bit is set.
TXTF setting clears the TXPIE and DXPIE masks so to off-load application software from
calculating when to disable TXP and DXP interrupts.
0: upload of TxFIFO is ongoing or not started
1: TxFIFO upload is finished
Bit 3 EOT: end of transfer
EOT is set by hardware as soon as a full transfer is complete, that is when SPI is re-enabled
or when TSIZE number of data have been transmitted and/or received on the SPI. EOT is
cleared when SPI is re-enabled or by writing 1 to the EOTC bit of the SPI_IFCR register
optionally.
EOT flag triggers an interrupt if the EOTIE bit is set.
If DXP flag is used until TXTF flag is set and DXPIE is cleared, EOT can be used to
download the last packets contained into RxFIFO in one-shot.
In master, EOT event terminates the data transfer and handles SS output optionally. When
CRC is applied, the EOT event is extended over the CRC frame transfer.
To restart the internal state machine properly, SPI is strongly suggested to be disabled and
re-enabled before next transfer starts despite its setting is not changed.
0: transfer is ongoing or not started
1: transfer complete
Bit 2 DXP: duplex packet
DXP flag is set whenever both TXP and RXP flags are set regardless SPI mode.
0: TxFIFO is Full and/or RxFIFO is Empty
1: both TxFIFO has space for write and RxFIFO contains for read a single packet at least
Bit 1 TXP: Tx-packet space available
TXP flag can be changed only by hardware. Its value depends on the physical size of the
FIFO and its threshold (FTHLV[3:0]), data frame size (DSIZE[4:0] in SPI mode), and actual
communication flow. If the data packet is stored by performing consecutive write operations
to SPI_TXDR, TXP flag must be checked again once a complete data packet is stored at
TxFIFO. TXP is set despite SPI TxFIFO becomes inaccessible when SPI is reset or
disabled.
0: not enough free space at TxFIFO to host next data packet
1: enough free space at TxFIFO to host at least one data packet