3460

USB on-the-go high-speed (OTG_HS)

RM0456

Bit 18 ASVLD: A-session valid
Indicates the host mode transceiver status.
0: A-session is not valid
1: A-session is valid
Note: Only accessible in host mode.
Bit 17 DBCT: Long/short debounce time
Indicates the debounce time of a detected connection.
0: Long debounce time, used for physical connections (100 ms + 2.5 µs)
1: Short debounce time, used for soft connections (2.5 µs)
Note: Only accessible in host mode.
Bit 16 CIDSTS: Connector ID status
Indicates the connector ID status on a connect event.
0: The OTG_HS controller is in A-device mode
1: The OTG_HS controller is in B-device mode
Note: Accessible in both device and host modes.
Bits 15:13 Reserved, must be kept at reset value.
Bit 12 EHEN: Embedded host enable
It is used to select between OTG A device state machine and embedded host state machine.
0: OTG A device state machine is selected
1: Embedded host state machine is selected
Bits 11:8 Reserved, must be kept at reset value.
Bit 7 BVALOVAL: B-peripheral session valid override value
This bit is used to set override value for Bvalid signal when BVALOEN bit is set.
0: Bvalid value is '0' when BVALOEN = 1
1: Bvalid value is '1' when BVALOEN = 1
Note: Only accessible in device mode.
Bit 6 BVALOEN: B-peripheral session valid override enable
This bit is used to enable/disable the software to override the Bvalid signal using the
BVALOVAL bit.
0: Override is disabled and Bvalid signal from the respective PHY selected is used internally
by the core
1 Internally Bvalid received from the PHY is overridden with BVALOVAL bit value
Note: Only accessible in device mode.
Bit 5 AVALOVAL: A-peripheral session valid override value
This bit is used to set override value for Avalid signal when AVALOEN bit is set.
0: Avalid value is '0' when AVALOEN = 1
1: Avalid value is '1' when AVALOEN = 1
Note: Only accessible in host mode.
Bit 4 AVALOEN: A-peripheral session valid override enable
This bit is used to enable/disable the software to override the Avalid signal using the
AVALOVAL bit.
0: Override is disabled and Avalid signal from the respective PHY selected is used internally
by the core
1: Internally Avalid received from the PHY is overridden with AVALOVAL bit value
Note: Only accessible in host mode.