RM0456 Rev 6

B7B6,B5B4,B3B2,B1B0

xx

B7B6B5B4,B3B2B1B0

RM0456

18.4.11

Low-power direct memory access controller (LPDMA)

LPDMA transfer request and arbitration
LPDMA transfer request
As defined by LPDMA_CxTR2, a programmed LPDMA data transfer is requested with one
of the following:

Caution:

•

a software request if the control bit SWREQ = 1: This is used typically by the CPU for a
data transfer from a memory-mapped address to another memory mapped address
(memory-to-memory, GPIO to/from memory)

•

an input hardware request coming from a peripheral if SWREQ = 0: The selection of
the LPDMA hardware peripheral request is driven by the REQSEL[4:0] field
(see Section 18.3.4). The selected hardware request can be one of the following:
–

a hardware request from a peripheral configured in LPDMA mode (for a transfer
from/to the peripheral data register respectively to/from the memory)

–

a hardware request from a peripheral for its control registers update from the
memory

–

a hardware request from a peripheral for a read of its status registers transferred
to the memory

The user must not assign a same input hardware peripheral LPDMA request via
LPDMA_CxTR.REQSEL[4:0] to two different channel if at a given time this request is
asserted by the peripheral and each channel is ready to execute this requested data
transfer. There is no user setting error reporting.

LPDMA transfer request for arbitration
For a given channel, a LPDMA requested data transfer from the source address to the
destination address is arbitrated versus simultaneous requested LPDMA transfers from
other channels, in order to be scheduled over the AHB master port. A LPDMA data transfer
is atomic to the LPDMA arbitration: it consists of an AHB read single, immediately followed
by an AHB write single. It is granted by the arbiter once for both AHB transfers, based on the
channel priority defined by LPDMA_CxCR.PRIO[1:0].
An arbitrated LPDMA requested link transfer consists of one 32-bit read from the linked-list
data structure in the memory to one of the linked-list registers (LPDMA_CxTR1,
LPDMA_CxTR2, LPDMA_CxBR1, LPDMA_CxSAR, LPDMA_CxDAR or LPDMA_CxLLR).
Each 32-bit read from the memory is arbitrated with the same channel priority as for data
transfers, in order to be scheduled over the master port.
The re arbitration occurs after each granted single transfer:
•

•

whatever how the requested data transfer is programmed:
–

with a software request for a memory-to-memory transfer
(LPDMA_CxTR2.SWREQ = 1)

–

with a hardware request (LPDMA_CxTR2.SWREQ = 0) for a memory-toperipheral transfer or a peripheral-to-memory transfer

whatever the hardware request type

When the requested data transfer is programmed with a hardware request from a peripheral
(LPDMA_CxTR2.SWREQ = 0), the first memory read of a block is gated by the occurrence
of the corresponding and selected hardware request, whatever the peripheral is source or
destination of the transfer. This first read request to the memory is not taken into account
earlier by the arbiter (not as soon as the block transfer is enabled and executable).

RM0456 Rev 6