•

USB physical interface (USB PHY): this block is maintaining the electrical interface to
an external USB host. It contains the differential analog transceiver itself, controllable
embedded pull-up resistor (connected to USB_DP line) and support for battery
charging detection (BCD), multiplexed on same USB_DP and USB_DM lines. The
output enable control signal of the analog transceiver (active low) is provided externally
on USB_NOE. It can be used to drive some activity LED or to provide information about
the actual communication direction to some other circuitry.

•

Serial interface engine (SIE): the functions of this block include: synchronization
pattern recognition, bit-stuffing, CRC generation and checking, PID
verification/generation, and handshake evaluation. It must interface with the USB
transceivers and uses the virtual buffers provided by the packet buffer interface for

RM0456 Rev 6

RM0456

Universal serial bus full-speed host/device interface (USB)
local data storage. This unit also generates signals according to USB peripheral
events, such as start of frame (SOF), USB_Reset, data errors etc. and to endpoint
related events like end of transmission or correct reception of a packet; these signals
are then used to generate interrupts.

Note:

•

Timer: this block generates a start-of-frame locked clock pulse and detects a global
suspend (from the host) when no traffic has been received for 3 ms.

•

Packet buffer interface: this block manages the local memory implementing a set of
buffers in a flexible way, both for transmission and reception. It can choose the proper
buffer according to requests coming from the SIE and locate them in the memory
addresses pointed by the endpoint/channel registers. It increments the address after
each exchanged byte until the end of packet, keeping track of the number of
exchanged bytes and preventing the buffer to overrun the maximum capacity.

•

Endpoint/channel-related registers: each endpoint/channel has an associated register
containing the endpoint/channel type and its current status. For monodirectional/single-buffer endpoints, a single register can be used to implement two
distinct endpoints. The number of registers is 8, allowing up to 16 monodirectional/single-buffer or up to 7 double-buffer endpoints in any combination. For
example the USB peripheral can be programmed to have 4 double buffer endpoints
and 8 single-buffer/mono-directional endpoints.

•

Control registers: these are the registers containing information about the status of the
whole USB peripheral and used to force some USB events, such as resume and
power-down.

•

Interrupt registers: these contain the interrupt masks and a record of the events. They
can be used to inquire an interrupt reason, the interrupt status or to clear the status of a
pending interrupt.

* Endpoint/channel 0 is always used for control transfer in single-buffer mode.
The USB peripheral is connected to the APB2 bus through an APB2 interface, containing
the following blocks:

71.4.6

•

Packet memory: this is the local memory that physically contains the packet buffers. It
can be used by the packet buffer interface, which creates the data structure and can be
accessed directly by the application software. The size of the packet memory is
2048 bytes, structured as 512 words of 32 bits.

•

Arbiter: this block accepts memory requests coming from the APB2 bus and from the
USB interface. It resolves the conflicts by giving priority to APB2 accesses, while
always reserving half of the memory bandwidth to complete all USB transfers. This
time-duplex scheme implements a virtual dual-port SRAM that allows memory access,
while an USB transaction is happening. Multiword APB2 transfers of any length are
also allowed by this scheme.

•

Register mapper: this block collects the various byte-wide and bit-wide registers of the
USB peripheral in a structured 32-bit wide word set addressed by the APB2.

•

APB2 wrapper: this provides an interface to the APB2 for the memory and register. It
also maps the whole USB peripheral in the APB2 address space.

•

Interrupt mapper: this block is used to select how the possible USB events can
generate interrupts and map them to the NVIC.

Description of host frame scheduler (HFS) specific to Host mode
The host frame scheduler is the hardware machine in charge to submit host channel
requests on the bus according to the USB priority order and bandwidth access rules.

RM0456 Rev 6