1861

DSI Host (DSI)

RM0456
Figure 428. Transmission of commands on the last line of a frame
Where vsync would have
asserted if dpihalt stayed low

frame time

frame time

dpivsync
dpihsync
dpidataen
edpihalt
vsync can assert immediately
after dpihalt de-asserts
MSv35881V1

Only one command is transmitted per line, even in the case of the last line of a frame but
one command is possible for each line.
There can be only one command sent in low-power per line. However, one low-power
command is possible for each line. In high-speed, the DSI Host can send more than one
command, as many as it determines to fit in the available time.
The DSI Host avoids sending commands in the last line because it is possible that the last
line is shorter than the other ones. For instance, the line time (tL) can be half a cycle longer
than the tL on the LTDC interface, that is, each line in the frame taking half a cycle from time
for the last line. This results in the last line being (½ cycle) x (number of lines -1) shorter
than tL.
The COLM and SHTDN bits of the DSI Wrapper control register (DSI_WCR) are also able to
trigger the sending of command packets. The commands are:
•

Color mode ON

•

Color mode OFF

•

Shut down peripheral

•

Turn on peripheral

These commands are not sent in the VACT region. If the low-power command enable
(LPCE) bit of the DSI Host video mode configuration register (DSI_VMCR) is set, these
commands are sent in low-power mode.
In low-power mode, the largest packet size (LPSIZE) field of the DSI Host low-power mode
configuration register (DSI_LPMCR) is used to determine if these commands can be
transmitted. It is assumed that largest packet size (LPSIZE) is greater than or equal to four
bytes (number of bytes in a short packet), because the DSI Host does not transmit these
commands on the last line.
If the frame bus-turn-around acknowledge enable (FBTAAE) bit is set in the DSI Host lowpower mode configuration register (DSI_LPMCR), a BTA is generated by DSI Host after the
last line of a frame. This may coincide with a write command or a read command. In either
case, the LTDC interface is halted until an acknowledge is received (control of the DSI bus
is returned to the host).