If the application needs to skip more data strobes, then the operation must be restarted
from step 1.

RM0456 Rev 6

RM0456

Multi-function digital filter (MDF)
The effect of the delay performed with this mechanism is cumulative as long as the MDF is
enabled. In a given filter, if the application performs a D1 delay, followed by a D2 delay, then
all other active filters are delayed by D1 + D2.
Data coming from ADCs can also benefit of this feature.
In interleaved acquisition mode, it is up to the application to insure that the delay applied on
the different microphones is in line with the depth of the RXFIFO buffers. If the relative delay
between each activated filter is less than the decimation ratio, then it costs one FIFO
location.
If the interleaved acquisition mode is not used, then the delay value has no impact on the
RXFIFO buffering.

Note:

If SKPDLY[6:0] is written when SKPBF = 1, the write operation is ignored.

Cascaded-integrator-comb (CIC) filter
The CIC digital filters are an efficient implementation of low-pass filters, often used for
decimation and interpolation. The CIC frequency response is equal to a SincN function, this
is why they are often called Sinc filters.
The SincN digital filter embedded into the MDF is configurable according to the application
targeted.
•

For audio applications, such as speech capture from digital microphones, the
application can select a high-resolution low-pass decimation filter by setting CICMOD
to 100 or 101.

•

If the targeted application is motor control or any other sensor capture, then the
application can configure the CIC in order to offer a main filter path for acquisition
(MCIC) and an auxiliary filter for fast-event generation (ACIC). This auxiliary filter can
be used for example, to detect over-current conditions. This mode is selected by
setting CICMOD[2:0] = 0xx.

When CICMOD[2:0] = 0xx, the following CIC filters are available:
•

main filter (MCIC)

•

auxiliary CIC filter (ACIC)

Both of them are configurable in FastSinc, Sinc1 to Sinc3.
When CICMOD[2:0] = 100, the CIC is configured into a single Sinc4 and when
CICMOD[2:0] = 101, the CIC is configured into a single Sinc5 filter.
The filters have the following transfer function (impulse response in z domain):
•

SincN filter type:

•

FastSinc filter type:

⎛ 1 – z –D⎞
H ( z ) = ⎜ ----------------⎟
⎝ 1 – z–1 ⎠

N

2

⎛ 1 – z –D⎞
–( 2 ⋅ D )
H ( z ) = ⎜ ----------------)
⎟ ⋅ (1 + z
⎝ 1 – z–1 ⎠

where N can be 1, 2, 3, 4 or 5, and D is the decimation ratio.
D is equal to MCICD+1 or ACICD+1.

RM0456 Rev 6