2952

Serial peripheral interface (SPI)

RM0456

Figure 848. Half-duplex single master/ single slave application

Rx shift register
Tx shift register
SPI clock
generator

Master

MISO

(2)

MOSI

MISO
(3)
Nȍ

MOSI

Rx shift register

SCK

SCK

SS (1)

SS(1)

RDY

(4)

Tx shift register

(2)

(4)

RDY

Slave

MSv50505V1

1. The SS pin interconnection is optional. The slave can be configured to be permanently selected to operate
in a single master-slave pair (see Section 68.4.7).
2. In this configuration, the MISO pin at master and MOSI pin at slave can be used as GPIOs
3. A critical situation can happen when the communication direction is not changed synchronously between
two nodes working in bidirectional mode. The new transmitter accesses the common data line while the
former transmitter still keeps an opposite value on the line (the value depends on the SPI configuration and
communicated data). The nodes can conflict temporarily with opposite output levels on the line until the
former transmitter changes its data direction setting. It is suggested to insert a serial resistance between
MISO and MOSI pins in this mode to protect the conflicting outputs and limit the current flow between them.
4. The RDY signal provided by the slave can be read by the master optionally.

Simplex communications
The SPI can communicate in simplex mode by setting the SPI in transmit-only or in receiveonly using the COMM[1:0] field in the SPI_CFG2 register. In this configuration, only one line
is used for the transfer between the shift registers of the master and slave. The remaining
MISO or MOSI pin pair is not used for communication and can be used as standard GPIOs.
•

Transmit-only mode: COMM[1:0] = 01
The master in transmit-only mode generates the clock as long as there are data
available in the TxFIFO and the master transfer is ongoing.
The slave in transmit-only mode sends data as long as it receives a clock on the SCK
pin and the SS pin (or software managed internal signal) is active (see Section 68.4.7).

•

Receive-only mode: COMM[1:0] = 10
In master mode, the MOSI output is disabled and can be used as a GPIO. The clock
signal is generated continuously as long as the SPI is enabled and the CSTART bit in
the SPI_CR1 register is set. The clock is stopped either by software explicitly
requesting this by setting the CSUSP bit in the SPI_CR1 register or automatically when
the RxFIFO is full, when the MASRX bit in the SPI_CR1 is set.
In slave configuration, the MISO output is disabled and the pin can be used as a GPIO.
The slave continues to receive data from the MOSI pin while its slave select signal is
active (see Section 68.4.7).

Note:

In whatever master and slave modes, the data pin dedicated for transmission can be
replaced by the data pin dedicated for reception and vice versa by changing the IOSWP bit
value in the SPI_CFG2 register (this bit can only be modified when the SPI is disabled).
Any simplex communication can be replaced by a variant of the half-duplex communication
with a constant setting of the transfer direction (bidirectional mode is enabled, while the
HDDIR bit is never changed) or by full-duplex control when unused data line and
corresponding data flow is ignored.