RM0456 Rev 6

RM0456

Secure AES coprocessor (SAES)

Bit 19 KEYPROT: Key protection
When set, hardware-based key protection is enabled.
0: When KEYVALID is set and KEYSEL = 0 application can transfer the ownership of the SAES,
with its loaded key, to an application running in another security context (such as nonsecure,
secure).
1: When KEYVALID is set, key error flag (KEIF) is set when an access to any registers is detected,
this access having a security context (for example, secure, nonsecure) that does not match the one
of the application that loaded the key.
Attempts to write the bit are ignored when the BUSY flag of SAES_SR register is set, as well as
when the EN bit of the SAES_CR register is set before the write access and it is not cleared by that
write access.
Bit 18 KEYSIZE: Key size selection
This bitfield defines the length of the key used in the SAES cryptographic core, in bits:
0: 128
1: 256
When KMOD[1:0] = 01 or 10 KEYSIZE also defines the length of the key to encrypt or decrypt.
Attempts to write the bit are ignored when the BUSY flag of SAES_SR register is set, as well as
when the EN bit of the SAES_CR register is set before the write access and it is not cleared by that
write access.
Bit 17 Reserved, must be kept at reset value.
Bit 16 Reserved, must be kept at reset value.
Bits 15:13 Reserved, must be kept at reset value.
Bit 12 DMAOUTEN: DMA output enable
This bit enables/disables data transferring with DMA, in the output phase:
0: Disable
1: Enable
When the bit is set, DMA requests are automatically generated by SAES during the output data
phase. This feature is only effective when Mode 1 or Mode 3 is selected through the MODE[1:0]
bitfield. It is not effective for Mode 2 (key derivation).
Bit 11 DMAINEN: DMA input enable
This bit enables/disables data transferring with DMA, in the input phase:
0: Disable
1: Enable
When the bit is set, DMA requests are automatically generated by SAES during the input data
phase. This feature is only effective when Mode 1 or Mode 3 is selected through the MODE[1:0]
bitfield. It is not effective for Mode 2 (key derivation).
Bits 10:7 Reserved, must be kept at reset value.
Bit 6 Reserved, must be kept at reset value.
Bits 16, 6:5 CHMOD[2:0]: Chaining mode selection
This bitfield selects the AES chaining mode:
000: Electronic codebook (ECB)
001: Cipher-block chaining (CBC)
others: Reserved
Attempts to write the bitfield are ignored when the BUSY flag of SAES_SR register is set, as well as
when the EN bit of the SAES_CR register is set before the write access and it is not cleared by that
write access.

RM0456 Rev 6