2952

Serial peripheral interface (SPI)

RM0456

TXC/EOT is set when the CRC frame is complete in this case. When a transmission is
suspended the software has to wait until the CSTART bit is cleared.
2.

Read all RxFIFO data (until RXWNE = 0 and RXPLVL = 00).

3.

Disable the SPI (SPE = 0).

The correct disable procedure for master receive-only modes is:
1.

Wait on EOT or break the receive flow by suspending SPI (CSUSP = 1).

2.

Wait until SUSP = 1 (the last data frame is processed) if the receive flow is suspended.

3.

Read all RxFIFO data (until RXWNE = 0 and RXPLVL = 00).

4.

Disable the SPI (SPE = 0).

In slave mode, any ongoing data are lost when disabling the SPI.

Controlling the I/Os
As soon as the SPI is disabled, the associated and enabled AF outputs can still be driven by
the device depending on the AFCNTR bit of the SPI_CFG2 register. When active output
control is applied (AFCNTR = 1) and SPI has just been disabled (SPE = 0), the enabled
outputs associated with SPI control signals (like SS and SCK at master and RDY at slave)
can immediately toggle to inactive level (according to SSIOP and CPOL settings at master
and RDIOP at slave respectively). Instead, the data line output (MOSI at master and MISO
at slave) can immediately change its level depending on the actual TxFIFO content, with the
effect of potentially making invalid and no more guaranteed the value of the latest
transferred bit on the bus. If necessary, the user has to take care about proper data hold
time at the data line and avoid any eventual fast SPI disable just after the last data transfer
is complete.
Note:

Despite stability of the latest bit is guaranteed by design during the sampling edge of the
clock, some devices can require even extension of this data bit stability interval during the
sampling. It can be done, for example by inserting a small software delay between EOT
event occurrence and SPI disable action.

68.4.14

Communication using DMA (direct memory addressing)
To operate at its maximum speed and to facilitate the data register read/write process
required to avoid overrun, the SPI features a DMA capability, which implements a simple
request/acknowledge protocol.
A DMA access is requested when the TXDMAEN or RXDMAEN enable bits of the
SPI_CFG1 register are set. Separate requests must be issued to the Tx and Rx buffers to
fulfill the service of the defined packet.
•

In transmission, a series of DMA requests is triggered each time TXP is set. The DMA
then performs a series of writes to the SPI_TXDR register.

•

In reception, a series of DMA requests is triggered each time RXP is set. The DMA
then performs a series of reads from the SPI_RXDR register. When EOT is set at the
end of the transfer and the last data packet is incomplete, then DMA request is
activated automatically according to RXWNE and RXPLVL[1:0] setting to read the rest
of data.

If the SPI is programmed in receive-only mode, UDR is never set.
If the SPI is programmed in a transmit mode, TXP and UDR can be eventually set at slave
side, because transmit data may not be available. In this case, some data are sent on the
TX line according with the UDR management selection.