191

System security

RM0456
–

•

Protected firmware distribution scheme, using TrustZone, on-the-fly decryption, and
RDP level 0.5

•

Active tamper and protection against temperature, voltage, and frequency attacks
–

3.2

Optional password-based RDP level regressions, including for RDP level 2

Eight active inputs, eight active outputs tamper pins, available in all power modes

Secure install
The secure firmware install (SFI) is an STMicroelectronics secure service authenticated and
decrypted by the immutable RSS code stored in the device. The SFI allows secure and
counted installation of OEM firmware in the untrusted production environment (such as the
OEM contract manufacturer).
The confidentiality of the installed images written either in the internal flash memory or
encrypted in an external flash memory, is also protected, using the AES.
The SFI native service leverages the following hardware security features:
•

secure boot (see Section 3.3)

•

resource isolation using TrustZone (see Section 3.5)

•

temporal isolation using hide protection (see Section 3.6.1)

•

secure execution (see Section 3.7)

•

secure storage, with associated cryptographic engines (see Section 3.8 and
Section 3.9)

Further information can be found in the application note: “STM32 MCUs secure firmware
install (SFI) overview” (AN4992).

3.3

Secure boot
Secure boot is an immutable code that is always executed after a system reset. As a root of
trust, this code checks the device static protections and activates available device runtime
protections, reducing the risk that invalid or malicious code runs on the platform. As root of
trust, the secure boot also checks the integrity and authenticity of the next level firmware
before executing it.
The actual functions of the secure boot depend on the availability of TrustZone features,
and on the firmware stored in the device. However, the secure boot typically initializes the
secure storage, and installs on-the-fly decryption keys in the OTFDEC, to be able to use
encrypted firmware stored in an external flash memory.
The device trusted firmware-M (TFM) application, supported by the STM32 ecosystem,
provides a root of trust solution including secure boot functions. For more information, refer
to the user manual Getting started with STM32CubeU5 TFM application (UM2851).
In the devices, the secure boot takes benefit of hardware security features such as: