3291

USB on-the-go full-speed (OTG_FS)

RM0456

Bit 27 LPMINT: LPM interrupt
In device mode, this interrupt is asserted when the device receives an LPM transaction and
responds with a non-ERRORed response.
In host mode, this interrupt is asserted when the device responds to an LPM transaction with
a non-ERRORed response or when the host core has completed LPM transactions for the
programmed number of times (RETRYCNT bit in OTG_GLPMCFG).
This field is valid only if the LPMEN bit in OTG_GLPMCFG is set to 1.
Bit 26 PTXFE: Periodic Tx FIFO empty
Asserted when the periodic transmit FIFO is either half or completely empty and there is
space for at least one entry to be written in the periodic request queue. The half or
completely empty status is determined by the periodic Tx FIFO empty level bit in the
OTG_GAHBCFG register (PTXFELVL bit in OTG_GAHBCFG).
Note: Only accessible in host mode.
Bit 25 HCINT: Host channels interrupt
The core sets this bit to indicate that an interrupt is pending on one of the channels of the
core (in host mode). The application must read the OTG_HAINT register to determine the
exact number of the channel on which the interrupt occurred, and then read the
corresponding OTG_HCINTx register to determine the exact cause of the interrupt. The
application must clear the appropriate status bit in the OTG_HCINTx register to clear this bit.
Note: Only accessible in host mode.
Bit 24 HPRTINT: Host port interrupt
The core sets this bit to indicate a change in port status of one of the OTG_FS controller
ports in host mode. The application must read the OTG_HPRT register to determine the
exact event that caused this interrupt. The application must clear the appropriate status bit in
the OTG_HPRT register to clear this bit.
Note: Only accessible in host mode.
Bit 23 RSTDET: Reset detected interrupt
In device mode, this interrupt is asserted when a reset is detected on the USB in partial
power-down mode when the device is in suspend.
Note: Only accessible in device mode.
Bit 22 Reserved, must be kept at reset value.
Bit 21 IPXFR: Incomplete periodic transfer
In host mode, the core sets this interrupt bit when there are incomplete periodic transactions
still pending, which are scheduled for the current frame.
INCOMPISOOUT: Incomplete isochronous OUT transfer
In device mode, the core sets this interrupt to indicate that there is at least one isochronous
OUT endpoint on which the transfer is not completed in the current frame. This interrupt is
asserted along with the End of periodic frame interrupt (EOPF) bit in this register.
Bit 20 IISOIXFR: Incomplete isochronous IN transfer
The core sets this interrupt to indicate that there is at least one isochronous IN endpoint on
which the transfer is not completed in the current frame. This interrupt is asserted along with
the End of periodic frame interrupt (EOPF) bit in this register.
Note: Only accessible in device mode.