1599

Multi-function digital filter (MDF)

RM0456

transfer is properly terminated. DFLTACTIVE goes back to 0 when the filter chain is reset
and the RXFIFO flushed.

Synchronous snapshot acquisition mode
In the acquisition modes described on previous sections, the application must wait for filters
settlings time or the end of conversion before getting a new valid sample. For applications
very critical in latency, the last valid sample can be get immediately, with an information on
the age of this sample by using the snapshot acquisition mode.
In snapshot mode, the DFLTx is continuously acquiring the samples, but the processed
samples are not stored into the RXFIFO. When a trigger occurs, the last valid sample, the
current decimation value of MCIC and the sample counter of the INT are stored in
MDF_SNPS0DR.
The possible trigger sources are the following:
•

one of the mdf_trg[13:0] signals

•

OLD event of the corresponding filter

•

TRGO bit

The Synchronous snapshot acquisition mode is selected when ACQMOD[2:0] = 101.
The sequence below shows the most important programming steps (assuming that DFLTEN
bits of the filters are set to 0):
1.

Configure and enable the clock generator (CKGEN), so that the frequency of
mdf_proc_ck clock is compatible with the targeted application (see examples in
Table 381).

2.

Enable the CKGEN and, if needed, enable the MDF_CCK0 and MDF_CCK1 clocks.

3.

Program the wanted filter settings and set the ACQMOD[2:0] to 101. FTH is usually
cleared to 0 to receive an interrupt as soon as the RXFIFO is not empty.

4.

Set the SITFEN bit of the requested data interfaces to 1.

5.

Select the proper trigger source and sensitivity for each filter.

6.

Before setting DFLTEN to 1, wait for DFLTACTIVE = 0: it insures that the previous filter
deactivation sequence has been properly terminated,

7.

Set DFLTEN to 1 for the filters to enable.

When the trigger condition is met,
1.

The MDF stores the last valid data provided by the corresponding filter, the value of the
MCIC decimation counter, and the counter value of INT if selected by SNPSFMT into a
shadow register.

2.

The snps_evt is activated, indicating that a data is ready. If SSDRIE is set to 1, the
MDF requests the AHB clock.

3.

When the AHB clock is available the shadow register is stored in MDF snapshot data
register x (MDF_SNPSxDR) and an interrupt is generated.

4.

In the interrupt sub-routine, the application must do the following:
a)

Read the data located in MDF_SNPSxDR.

b)

Clear the SSDRF flag by writing it to 1.

As shown in the Figure 346, in snapshot mode, when the trigger event occurs, it is
resynchronized with the processing clock (mdf_proc_ck), the decimation counter of the
MCIC (MCIC_CNTR), the integrator counter (INT_CNTR) and the last valid sample (SN+2),
are stored into a shadow register, and the snps_evt event is generated. When the AHB