•

NCS boundary

•

refresh

RM0456 Rev 6

RM0456

Hexadeca-SPI interface (HSPI)
The NCS boundary feature limits a transaction to a boundary of aligned addresses. The size
of the address to be aligned with is configured in CSBOUND[4:0] of HSPI_DCR3 and it is
equal to 2CSBOUND.
As an example, if CSBOUND(4:0] = 0x4, the boundary is set to 24 = 16 bytes. As a
consequence, the NCS is released each time that the LSB address is equal to 0xF, and
each time that a new transaction is issued to address the next data.
If CSBOUND[4:0] = 0, the feature is disabled. A minimum value of three is recommended.
The NCS boundary feature cannot be used for flash memory devices in write mode since a
command is necessary to program another page of the flash memory.
The refresh feature limits the duration of the transactions to the value programmed in
REFRESH[31:0] of HSPI_DCR4. The duration is expressed in number of cycles. This allows
an external RAM to perform its internal refresh operation regularly.
The refresh value must be greater than the minimal transaction size in terms of number of
cycles including the command, address, alternate/dummy phases.
If NCS boundary and refresh are enabled at the same time, the NCS is released on the first
condition met.

Restarting after an interrupted transfer
When a read or write operation is interrupted by a timeout, the HSPI interface, as soon as
possible after getting back the port ownership, re-issues the initial command sequence
together with the address following the last address actually accessed before interruption.
The transfer initially set goes on and ends seamlessly.

30.4.8

HSPI operating modes introduction
The HSPI has the following operating modes regardless of the low-level protocol used
(either regular-command or HyperBus):

30.4.9

•

indirect mode (read or write)

•

automatic status-polling mode (only in regular-command protocol)

•

memory-mapped mode

HSPI indirect mode
In indirect mode, the commands are started by writing to the HSPI registers, and the data is
transferred by writing or reading the data register, in a similar way to other communication
peripherals.
When FMODE[1:0] = 00 in HSPI_CR, the HSPI is in indirect-write mode: bytes are sent to
the external device during the data phase. Data are provided by writing to HSPI_DR.
When FMODE[1:0] = 01, the HSPI is in indirect-read mode: bytes are received from the
external device during the data phase. Data are recovered by reading HSPI_DR.
In indirect mode, when the HSPI is configured in DTR mode over eight lanes with DQS
disabled, the given starting address and the data length must be even.

Note:

The HSPI_AR register must be updated even if the start address is the same as the start
address of the previous indirect access.

RM0456 Rev 6