RM0456 Rev 6

RM0456

USB on-the-go full-speed (OTG_FS)

Bit 24 SNDLPM: Send LPM transaction
When the application software sets this bit, an LPM transaction containing two tokens, EXT
and LPM is sent. The hardware clears this bit once a valid response (STALL, NYET, or
ACK) is received from the device or the core has finished transmitting the programmed
number of LPM retries.
Note: This bit must be set only when the host is connected to a local port.
Note: Accessible only in host mode.
Bits 23:21 LPMRCNT[2:0]: LPM retry count
When the device gives an ERROR response, this is the number of additional LPM retries
that the host performs until a valid device response (STALL, NYET, or ACK) is received.
Note: Accessible only in host mode.
Bits 20:17 LPMCHIDX[3:0]: LPM Channel Index
The channel number on which the LPM transaction has to be applied while sending an LPM
transaction to the local device. Based on the LPM channel index, the core automatically
inserts the device address and endpoint number programmed in the corresponding channel
into the LPM transaction.
Note: Accessible only in host mode.
Bit 16 L1RSMOK: Sleep state resume OK
Indicates that the device or host can start resume from Sleep state. This bit is valid in LPM
sleep (L1) state. It is set in sleep mode after a delay of 50 μs (TL1Residency).
This bit is reset when SLPSTS is 0.
1: The application or host can start resume from Sleep state
0: The application or host cannot start resume from Sleep state
Bit 15 SLPSTS: Port sleep status
Device mode:
This bit is set as long as a Sleep condition is present on the USB bus. The core enters the
Sleep state when an ACK response is sent to an LPM transaction and the TL1TokenRetry
timer has expired. To stop the PHY clock, the application must set the STPPCLK bit in
OTG_PCGCCTL, which asserts the PHY suspend input signal.
The application must rely on SLPSTS and not ACK in LPMRSP to confirm transition into
sleep.
The core comes out of sleep:
– When there is any activity on the USB line state
– When the application writes to the RWUSIG bit in OTG_DCTL or when the application
resets or soft-disconnects the device.
Host mode:
The host transitions to Sleep (L1) state as a side-effect of a successful LPM transaction by
the core to the local port with ACK response from the device. The read value of this bit
reflects the current Sleep status of the port.
The core clears this bit after:
– The core detects a remote L1 wake-up signal,
– The application sets the PRST bit or the PRES bit in the OTG_HPRT register, or
– The application sets the L1Resume/ remote wake-up detected interrupt bit or disconnect
detected interrupt bit in the core interrupt register (WKUPINT or DISCINT bit in
OTG_GINTSTS, respectively).
0: Core not in L1
1: Core in L1

RM0456 Rev 6