2526

Low-power timer (LPTIM)

RM0456

Figure 744. Continuous counting mode when repetition register LPTIM_RCR
different from zero (with PRELOAD = 1)
Repetition counter underflow event
LPTIM_RCR

4

Repetition counter

1

9

0

LPTIM_ARR
Compare

9

8

7

Preloaded registers updated

0
PWM
MSv47415V1

A repetition counter underflow event is systematically associated with LPTIM preloaded
registers update (refer to Section 58.4.11: Register update for more information).
Repetition counter underflow event is signaled to the software through the update event
(UE) flag mapped into the LPTIM_ISR register. When set, the UE flag can trigger an LPTIM
interrupt if its respective update event interrupt enable (UEIE) control bit, mapped to the
LPTIM_DIER register, is set.
The repetition register LPTIM_RCR is located in the APB bus interface clock domain where
the repetition counter itself is located in the LPTIM kernel clock domain. Each time a new
value is written to the LPTIM_RCR register, this new content is propagated from the APB
bus interface clock domain to the LPTIM kernel clock domain. The new written value is then
loaded to the repetition counter immediately after a repetition counter underflow event. The
synchronization delay for the new written content is four APB clock cycles plus three LPTIM
kernel clock cycles and it is signaled by the REPOK flag located in the LPTIM_ISR register
when it is elapsed. When the LPTIM kernel clock cycle is relatively slow, for instance when
the LPTIM kernel is being clocked by the LSI clock source, it can be lengthy to keep polling
on the REPOK flag by software to detect that the synchronization of the LPTIM_RCR
register content is finished. For that reason, the REPOK flag, when set, can generate an
interrupt if its associated REPOKIE control bit in the LPTIM_DIER register is set.
Note:

After a write to the LPTIM_RCR register, a new write operation to the same register can only
be performed when the previous write operation is completed. Any successive writes before
the REPOK flag is set, lead to unpredictable results.

Caution:

When using repetition counter with PRELOAD = 0, LPTIM_RCR register must be changed
at least five counter cycles before the autoreload match event, otherwise an unpredictable
behavior may occur.

58.4.17

Capture/compare channels
Each capture/compare channel is built around a capture/compare register, an input stage
for capture (with digital filter, multiplexing and prescaler) and an output stage (with
comparator and output control) for PWM.