400

Data cache (DCACHE)

RM0456
Table 92. DCACHE cacheability for AHB transaction

AHB lookup attribute

AHB bufferable attribute

Cacheability

0

x

Read and write: non cacheable

1

0

Read: cacheable
Write: (cacheable) write-through

1

1

Read: cacheable
Write: (cacheable) write-back

In case of noncacheable access, the DCACHE is bypassed, meaning that the AHB
transaction is propagated unchanged to the master output port.
The bypass does not increase the latency of the access to the targeted memory.
In case of cacheable access, the DCACHE behaves as explained in Section 9.4.6.
Cacheable memory regions are defined and programmed by the user in the MPU,
responsible for the generation of the AHB attribute signals for any transaction addressing a
given region.

9.4.6

Cacheable accesses
When the DCACHE receives a cacheable transaction from Cortex®-M33 or from another
bus master peripheral on its slave port, the DCACHE checks if the address requested is
present in its TAG memory and if the corresponding cache line is valid.
For read transaction, there are three alternatives:
•

The address is present inside the TAG memory, the cache line is valid: cache read hit,
the data is read from cache and provided to the processor in the same cycle.

•

The address is not present in the TAG memory: cache read miss, the data is read
from the main memory and provided to the processor, and a cache line refill is
performed.
The critical-word-first refill policy insures minimum wait cycles for the processor, since
read data can be provided while cache is still performing cache line refill (associated
latency is the latency of fetching one word from main memory).
The kind of burst generated on the DCACHE master bus depends on HBURST bit
in DCACHE_CR: either INCRw or WRAPw (w being the cache line width, in words).
The AHB transaction attributes are also propagated from the slave input (missing)
request to the master output refill request.

•

The address is not present in the TAG memory but belongs to the refill burst from main
memory that is currently ongoing: cache read hit as well (hit-under-miss feature).
Whatever the line refill is due to a read or write (missing) transaction, the DCACHE can
provide the requested read data as soon as the data is available at its master interface,
thus avoiding a miss (with data fetch from main memory).